There is a systematic upward bias in
equity markets. The market is trying to
look through the valley here. If it's a
one-month shock, the market has to price
in the risk that it might be two months.
>> There's just been absolute violence in
terms of the rotation.
>> Be watchful rather than making massive
structural changes.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, no end in sight.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 million barrels of oil, which will
substantially reduce the oil prices as
we end this threat to America and this
threat to the world. Crude rallying
despite officials announcing a major
release of strategic reserves. The
tension deepening leaving tankers coming
under fire across the Middle East and
banks telling their Dubai staff to stay
away from the office until further
notice. Brent briefly breaking triple
digits once again. The big question was
why are officials releasing so many
barrels of oil unless they see something
that we don't see. Why are they doing
the biggest release in history? The why
is right here. The International Energy
Agency came out this morning and said
the war in the Middle East is creating
the largest supply disruption in the
history of the global oil market saying
it is hitting 7 and 1/2% of global oil
supply. You have that kind of hit, try
pricing that in. It just means oil price
is higher.
>> The headlines keep coming. Two oil
tankers coming under fire. The numbers
keep climbing. Huge fire at a facility
in Oman. The pressure building in places
like Asia. China once again tightening
fuel export curbs. It's headline after
headline.
>> Wright said last night on Fox News that
basically this is just to tide the world
over until you have the conflict
basically ending. But guess what? This
is not enough oil per day. Jeff Currie
as he talked about the flow to tide us
over. If the Strait of Hormuz right now
and the flows going through that are 90%
down, and it's not even just the fact
that it's such a big bazooka of oil,
individuals are concerned about how long
this will last. It's the fact that
you're seeing this. You're seeing seeing
tankers on fires, and the market is
starting to say this is going to be
potentially very prolonged.
>> Which market? Crude? Equities right now,
pretty calm. Equity futures negative by
a third of 1%. Equities and equity
investors are looking through the pain
at spot, looking out further out along
the futures curve. But, you're starting
to see a rally there at the back end as
well, particularly around the end of
this year. New forecast from Goldman.
Take a listen to this. Fourth quarter
Brent average, $76 a barrel if it's a
30-day disruption. If it extends to 60,
you're talking about a $93 a barrel
average price in the fourth quarter.
That is a major change to the outlook.
>> And there's an excellent exponential
shift higher in terms of pricing
expectation expectations the longer this
goes on. Bloomberg Economics putting out
a forecast with 1 month, $105 a barrel.
With 3 months, they're talking $163 a
barrel. So, to your point, to Goldman's
point, the longer this goes on, it's not
necessarily just a linear change. It is
a step change, and it really potentially
could impact the economy.
>> Brent crude this morning, 96.30. WTI
around 91. Coming up this hour, catch up
with Keith Lerner of Truist with markets
focused on the Middle East. Matt Gerken
of BCA Research as President Trump vows
to finish the job in Iran. And Hordly
Out of Rystad Energy on how crude could
top 130. We begin this hour with our top
story. Fresh attacks on tankers in the
Persian Gulf sending crude higher and
prompting massive evacuations across the
region. Bloomberg's Jamana Al Saeedi
joins us now from Dubai for more.
Jamana, it's day 13, and as you look at
the region at the moment, it's
difficult, I imagine, to say things are
getting better because it looks like
things are getting worse.
That's indeed the situation. And
President Trump saying yesterday that
the strait is in good shape, and
actually the reality on the ground
paints a very different picture. Just in
the last 12 hours, we've seen multiple
developments at key energy
infrastructure sites in and around By
the way, not just the Strait, but around
the broader region, too. Persian Gulf,
two vessels off the coast of Iraq and
that is the northern most northern part
of the Persian Gulf
were targeted. They were set ablaze and
were on fire in the early hours in this
morning causing disruption on export
terminals over there. And then if you go
all the way to the bottom of the Arabian
Peninsula, the Salalah port in Oman,
that's a fuel depot also targeted as
well.
And then throughout the course of the
evening, another export terminal on the
Gulf of Oman, one of the biggest
actually around the Gulf of Oman and a
key export terminal for Oman which
exports 1 million barrels a day, and
they they were also targeted which led
to the evacuation of vessels from the
area. Now, they have said that they have
resumed operations in the last few
hours. But it still just underscores
that not only is the Strait and the
transit through the Strait becoming an
issue, but more broadly the entire
region, the Persian Gulf, the Gulf of
Oman are also increasingly targeted.
Abha then also inflicted got got
targeted once again, their fuel depot
over there. They have halted operations
and then overnight, this has been
happening for several days now. It isn't
getting as much attention because the
projectiles have been intercepted, but
multiple attempts of the Shaybah oil
field in Saudi Arabia being targeted as
well. Saudi Arabia alone intercepted 43
projectiles overnight. So, for all
intents and purposes, the conflict seems
to be expanding. No sign whatsoever that
things are letting up and if anything,
Iran keep going after key logistics and
energy infrastructure hubs in the
region. Jumana, let's finish up by
talking about Dubai. You moved to Dubai
like many other people. Dubai has done
so much to attract international talent.
To see the headlines cross recently from
Goldman, City, Standard Chartered
telling their staff to stay away from
the office. How much has changed where
you are in just a few weeks?
Well, I'm broadcasting from home today
as well. And out of an abundance of
caution, what you're hearing from
financial institutions, including the
ones that you just mentioned, is that
they are advising their employees and
personnel to stay away from the office,
to work from home, continue working from
home for the foreseeable future. Many
institutions have also allowed for
temporary relocation of staff. Again,
out of out of an abundance of caution.
Now, this isn't a formal evacuation
notice, I should say, out of the DIFC.
But, the intensity of strikes over the
UAE has picked up once again. I should
mention that the interception rates has
been extremely high, north of something
like 93, 94% for all of the incoming
ballistic missiles. But, anecdotally, in
the past 16 hours, we have all, as
residents of this country, received
incoming missile alerts.
And just in the past 6 hours, we've
heard of debris causing a significant
amount of damage or um some damage in in
some residential areas. And so, on the
back of that, I think many institutions
around here are erring on the side of
caution. That's not to say there's been
a formal evacuation notice, but
you know, the feeling is very much one
of wait and see how this all evolves.
But, for the time being, again, there
are no signs that things are beginning
to let up. So, better to be safe.
Jumana, stay safe and stay close. We'll
catch up with you in the next hour or
so. The tension in the region, compare
and contrast that with the calm in the
equity market. Equity futures right now,
the S&P down by about a third of 1%.
Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Keith Lerner of Truist writes
in the following, "The bull market still
deserves the benefit of the doubt, but
we expect choppy, range-bound trading to
persist given the geopolitical
backdrop." Keith joins us now for more.
Keith, welcome to the program. Let's
just get to that calm in this equity
market compared to the tension
elsewhere. What's anchoring the bullish
view?
Yeah, well, first of all, good morning
to you all. It's It's one of those
years, Jonathan, that I'm glad I didn't
have the headlines ahead of time writing
the outlook because as you mentioned,
we've had this kind of ongoing, what I
call the carousel of concerns as one
concern come receives another one comes
up and obviously Iran is front and
center. I think to your question, like
why is the market somewhat stable is,
you know, think about the last five
years, everything the market has gone
through, whether it's, you know, COVID,
supply chain disruptions, the fastest
rate increase by the Fed
since the '80s, the highest inflation
since the '70s.
And despite all that, the market is
still close to all-time highs and I
think the North Star of this bull market
has been earnings. Earnings at this
point are still trending higher and I
think to my overall point, I think
investors are giving this bull market
the benefit of the doubt because we've
seen so many corrections and the wrong
thing to do historically during these,
you know, big events at the time was
ultimately to sell. So, I think that's
why the market is being somewhat calm.
I'd actually like to see a little bit
more panic to set up a better buying
opportunity relative to where we are
right now.
Steve Auth of Federated Hermes yesterday
came on and said that when oil prices
get on average above $90 a barrel, that
would change his constructive view
because it would start to do damage to
the underlying economy. Do you have a
thesis like that where suddenly you
start to get more concerned about the
cycle of the economy right now?
Yeah, I don't know that there's an exact
number per se, but you know, we do
follow a weight of the evidence
approach. Part of that is on the
economy. So, if our economic
group in general starts to shave back
our our forecast, that would be a
concern. You You look at relative
prices, we look at the credit markets,
and I think those earning trends and the
earnings momentum in general are all
things that we're watching closely
to say, "Hey, should we be adjusting our
overall position?" Right now, we still
are maintaining a modest overweight to
equities, but we also wrote a note
earlier this week, you know, suggesting
that this is not the time we haven't had
enough of a correction relative to the
risk to say this is a you know, some
type of buying opportunity. And you
know, what's what's also notable is look
at the indexes relative you know, as
Jonathan alluded to like the the equity
or global equities are still up about a
percent, the S&P's down 1%, the US
dollar's up 1%. So, if you didn't have
the headlines, you thought you would
think this is kind of a a a normal kind
of uneventful year. Right now, I'm just
struck by the fact that people have been
conditioned to buy the dip, and they've
been conditioned to year after year
after year, partly because there is a
policy with response that can be
delivered, right? 2020, we got what we
got from the Fed as well as the bazooka
from the federal government. 2022, there
was a sense that also there was going to
be some response, and there was more
momentum in the economy. Is there that
same policy lever this time around?
Yeah, it's it's an open question. You
know, a lot of debate right now is you
know, it looks like the administration
may be looking for an off-ramp, but it
may not be fully up to them because I I
obviously the Iranians have a lot to do
with this as well, but I do think big
picture that you know,
there is a focus from the
administration, and then also China, you
know, there's a lot of
China's imports go through the Strait as
well. So,
you know, it may not just be US, it may
be China as well. So, I think ultimately
there is likely some type of off-ramp,
and and that doesn't mean that some of
the volatility and tensions go away, but
listen, the administration is focused,
we all know it's the midterm elections.
I do think there's going to be some
things they can do, but obviously it's
different than the terrorists where they
can basically just step away themselves.
There's other partners that they have to
rely on. But Keith, how do you parse
through what the administration is
saying? Yesterday, the president told
Axios there's practically nothing left
to target in Iran and then last night at
a speech he said we don't want to leave
early, right? So the president is
opening the door for a prolonged
conflict to what they before they would
decide that it is mission complete.
Yeah, well the one thing I would you
know be thinking about I mean obviously
as you look at even consumer confidence
surveys over time and inflation
expectations they correlate very highly
with with gas prices. So I just think
again you no one knows exactly how long
what the pain threshold is but
ultimately you know high gas prices
isn't going to be helpful going into a
midterm election. So I think that's
going to be front and center and I mean
the open question that no one can really
say is does that mean the threshold is
you know two weeks
you know two months it's hard to say but
I think ultimately just like there was a
focus last year about hey if the 10-year
Treasury starts going above 450 475
there's really a more increased focus
and even more headlines that are
dropping from the administration. I
think we'll likely would that as well
again if if oil stayed elevated at these
levels and we started this continue to
see some of the the polling data
deteriorate. Keith help me understand
this one. We've had a major move in
crude up by more than 30% so far this
month alone and a repricing further out
the curve as well and yet Keith energy
equities are up by a little more than 1%
energy stocks on the S&P 500 have barely
moved off the back of this story. What
gives?
Yeah, well for one thing the energy
stocks had a big had a big rise going
into this so I think that's one thing. I
think overall the energy market is still
relatively constructive and there's also
you know some of the core structure
within the energy
complex will also go high so there's
some offsets. I think ultimately though
the energy sector on pullbacks is is
actually relatively attractive after not
doing anything for several years but
again heading into this whole
you know this whole whole tension we we
saw
the energy sector being among the top
sectors for the year. And same with
gold. Gold went into this being up about
40%
you know, year-to-date. So, I think
that's just kind of the reason why we
haven't seen more of these moves in both
energy and gold prices per se. Keith,
always good to catch up. Thank you, sir.
Keith Lerner there at Truist on the
equity market. This equity market is
just not buying the story coming out of
the Middle East. Not buying it at all.
Markets have been conditioned to ignore
geopolitics, to look through it because
ultimately they have been burned every
time they tried to lean in. This is a
market that has been conditioned to take
any kind of histrionic concern and view
it just as that, histrionic concern. At
the same time that you do have people in
other markets right now treating this as
very real and those are the physical
markets and the oil markets in
particular. Trying to pair those two is
getting increasingly an exercise in
cognitive dissonance and we see it every
day. Brent crude 9650 this morning up by
around 5% on WTI higher as well up to
9130. Up next on the program, finishing
the job in Iran.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 billion barrels of oil. Oil prices
are already coming back down and it's
going to come down but we we're not
leaving until that job is finished and
it's going to be very fast. Those prices
aren't coming down this morning. Up next
we'll catch up with Matt Gertken of BCA
Research live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Back into triple digits overnight. The
high of the session 101.59
up by more than 10% briefly. Here's the
state of things right now. Brent crude
higher by 5% 96.80.
WTI around 91.70 also higher by about
five percentage points in the equity
market, seemingly ignoring most of it.
Equity futures down by about 0.4% where
there is some pain, if any, is small
caps, the Russell, -0.9. It's a double
whammy there. On one hand, you've got
benchmark rates that are going up in
anticipation of a Fed and central banks
globally either remaining on hold or
even hiking rates. Meanwhile, you also
have this idea of a downward trajectory
for growth given the fact that consumers
are going to have a huge hit to their
budgets as a result of rising gas
prices. And the Federal Reserve's not
stepping in anytime soon. Two-year bond
yields at the highs of the year, 3.65 on
twos, on tens about 4.22. And as it
happens this morning, finishing the job
in Iraq.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 million barrels of oil, which will
substantially reduce the oil prices as
we end this threat to America and this
threat to the world. We don't want to
leave early, do we? Huh?
WE GOT TO FINISH THE JOB, RIGHT? OIL
prices are already coming back down, and
it's going to come down, but we we're
not leaving until that job is finished,
and it's going to be very fast. So,
here's the latest this morning. The
White House is about to release millions
of barrels from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve to ease surging energy costs.
Crude still pushing higher following
attacks on tankers across the Persian
Gulf. Bloomberg's Dana Kendall joins us
now for the latest from Washington. Good
morning, Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this move
perhaps underscores that continued
disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz show
no signs of abating as the Trump
administration is now set to tap the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve for 172
million barrels. The US Energy Secretary
Christopher Wright saying that it will
take about four months to fully deliver
those supplies, and the US is now bowing
to replenish the SPR with about 200
million barrels by the end of this year.
But, the move does mark a reversal for
the Trump administration, which
reportedly told G7 allies on a call
earlier this week that it would oppose
any intervention in oil markets amid
concerns that it could be premature,
according to the Wall Street Journal.
That tracks with what has been some
mixed signals from the administration
regarding its policies when it comes to
the war with Iran. In those remarks
yesterday, President Trump had indicated
again that we could see the war end
early, in his words, as he maintains
that the US is ahead of schedule in
achieving its objectives, but then he
went on to say that he is willing to
sustain the military conflict for as
long as it takes. As you heard, the
president did mention how this is part
of this coordinated release with the
International Energy Agency, which, as
you mentioned on the program earlier,
reported in a new report this morning
that we are expected to see global oil
supply slashed by about 8 million
barrels per day this month. John,
against that backdrop, we know the Trump
administration is mulling a few
different options to help curb prices at
the pump for retail consumers here in
the US. And that includes new reporting
by Bloomberg News that President Trump
is considering invoking the Defense
Production Act, an emergency power, to
spur offshore oil production off the
coast of California in a bid to boost
domestic supplies. Tanekandou, with the
latest in Washington. Tane, thank you.
We already produce here in the United
States something between 13 to 14
million barrels of crude a day. How much
more can you get out of production here?
The issue is the Strait of Hormuz. And
the Wall Street Journal this morning has
reporting that the US has turned down
repeated asks from oil companies for the
Navy to escort them through the Strait
of Hormuz, according to the Wall Street
Journal, citing Gulf officials. So, that
is what needs to be reopened in order
for prices to be depressed, not some
potential new drilling that won't come
online for years. Brent crude, 96.36.
Matt Gertken, the chief geopolitical
strategist of BCA, writes in the
following. The US and Iran are now too
deeply involved in conflict to avoid
significant negative economic
ramifications. Matt joins us now for
more. Matt, welcome to the program. I
understand Iran has offered some
conditions to end this. How far apart
are these two sides?
Thanks very much. Pleasure to be with
you. Look, I mean, I think the key thing
is that Iran chose war over dismantling
their nuclear program forever. They've
had multiple rounds of negotiations.
What they saw was domestic unrest and
that they could save the regime by
facing a conflict and or enduring a
conflict with the US and Israel. And so
they've made this choice and that shows
that they're ready to escalate beyond
the the pain point that Donald Trump was
hoping to
to wind down the war at. Matt, do you
think the Iranians really understand
that the threshold for this president is
a $100 crude?
I Yeah, of course they do. I think it's
easy to see that presidents President
Obama, you know, in the wake of GFC had
over $100 per barrel oil and it was one
of the reasons it was a
a malaise sort of in the country and he
faced troubles in midterm elections.
President Biden, of course, was sort of
ruined by high energy prices as well as
inflation. So, I think it's well known
that the pain point for the American
population is quite low and they can see
the polls. I mean, the problem is this
war is starting with a very low level of
popular approval and over time popular
approval tends to wane. At the same
time, we have heard from President
Peseschkian in the most specific matters
yet in terms of what would it need to
take to bring the Iranians to the table.
Do you think this is real or do you
think this is just diplomatic fodder for
public consumption?
Well, I I do think it's real in the
sense that ultimately the Iranians do
need to come to the table because if the
US resorts to indiscriminate bombing
and, you know, just overwhelming
military force, then the US can just
probably destroy the regime. It's It's
hard to destroy a regime from the air,
but if there were ever a case in which
it could be be it's it's this is
probably one of them. Uh so, Iran
doesn't have an incentive to push that
far. They don't want the US to destroy
all their ports, all their facilities,
assassinate their all their next rung of
leaders, you know, wipe out critical
infrastructure. That would render them,
you know, it non-existent. And so, they
do have to they basically have to twist
the knife and force everyone to realize
that President Trump is capitulating,
but then they need to back off before
the Americans resort to really
overwhelming tactics. Matt, you said
that right now it seems like Iran and
the US are too intertwined and too
involved in this conflict to avoid, as
you said, significant economic damage or
significant negative economic
ramifications. From your perspective,
when you talk to clients, when you talk
to investors, do they do they seem to be
acknowledging that, understanding that,
starting to price that in?
Yeah, I think there's been a big
transition in terms of how people are
thinking about the the conflict. I mean,
for you know, for a long while those of
us who are geopolitical strategists sort
of focusing on the issue, uh maybe we're
seen as alarmist. Now it's recognized
that there is a significant economic
cost. But, of course,
we are seeing the release of oil
reserves, and that can create some space
here. I mean, there you know, if you
look at what the IEA is doing, you
probably have a month if if you released
all the reserves and you did it
urgently, you have a month where the US
armed forces can try to clear the
passage in the strait. Um so, that does
buy time. So, I think it's just an issue
now of vigilance. Basically, investors
know that this could create a massive
shock. It could create an economic
recession in the worst case, uh but
they're not going to leap to that
conclusion until they see that there's
extensive damage to the physical oil
production infrastructure in the region.
Matt, do you think that people are going
to try to avoid the Strait of Hormuz
going forward just because of the
specter of danger that will still lurk
over the region?
Yeah, I think that conclusion is
warranted. I think anyone seeing this
understands now and in in the future,
even in the in the best case scenarios
we have today, everyone will still
recognize that these geographic choke
points are still relevant, but for that
very reason, renewable energy and
alternative supply lines are going to
become very important. So, for the US
and its allies and for free countries
around the world, that can mean
investing and opening up new production
in places like the Americas or in
Africa. But, for China in particular, it
will mean building pipelines and
production in Central Asia and Siberia,
working with Russia because they need to
find a way to avoid interdiction by
American military and naval forces. Hi
Matt, good to catch up. Thanks for being
here. Matt Gerken there of BCA Research.
It always depends on what hat you wear.
If you're an equity strategist right
now, I imagine you find some of this
alarmist. For the guys who are tracking
the story on the ground though, this is
just an accurate depiction of what is
taking place right now.
>> Yeah, people are looking elsewhere. I am
struck by the fact that who's benefiting
the most? Russia. Guess who's exporting
that much more oil and benefiting on the
cost side? That nation, which is
currently in a war with Ukraine. Up next
on the program, Helima Croft of Rystad
Energy as crude nears triple digits
plus. We'll get you some morning movers
this morning. We'll check out Morgan
Stanley in the pre-market. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Two-day losing streak coming, S&P
looking to avoid day three in the hands
of what happens here to an extent.
Brent, WTI. Brent crude this morning
higher by 5% 96.64.
Jeff Currie of Goldman put it well just
yesterday, policy options are unlikely
to break crude's ascent while Hormuz
remains blocked. And blocked it remains.
That's the picture for oil. Here's the
picture for the equity market. The S&P,
the NASDAQ, the Russell shaping up as
follows. Futures -0.4 on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 0.3. On the
Russell, we're negative by 0.9.
Are we starting to rethink the outlook?
Now, you're starting to see bigger and
bigger moves further out the crude
curve.
>> So far, analysts that we've spoken to
have seemed to split up on different
sides of this. On one hand, they're
saying the cyclical rotation can still
remain in place based on where the
pricing was and based on the fact that
consumers are still getting that tax
return that could potentially bolster
them. And then you have other people
saying, "Hold on a second. You start
looking at discretionary income. You
start looking at how much it gets eaten
away by higher gas prices and higher
prices in general." This is starting to
look like a less robust economy.
Barclays out with a note talking about
how if the oil price spike is
persistent, which at this moment it
looks like potentially this is going to
be at minimum a few more weeks, the
higher the downside risk to earnings and
valuations. What does it mean to have
another supply shock and it hits GDP?
There's going to be negative effects and
maybe at some point the equity market
start waking up to that. Let's talk
about some single names. It's not just
about energy. That's where the
headlights are. But there's an ongoing
story and the tension keeps building in
private markets. Want to talk about
Morgan Stanley. Check it out in the
pre-market. Not just this name, but
others as well. So, the latest headline,
the cap and redemptions. This is about
private credit funds. We've seen those
headlines from Cliffwater limiting
redemptions. JP Morgan, you saw that
just yesterday restricting lending to
private credit funds marking down the
value of certain loans. The tension,
Lisa, keeps building. Now, over the last
10 years or so, every now and again, you
see a fund, this happens, and you hear
about the word gating.
This is happening almost all at once
and everywhere.
The redemption requests that the likes
of Cliffwater and Morgan Stanley have
been getting, a Morgan Stanley fund I
should say, are significantly bigger
than what they're willing to allow leave
the fund. Morgan Stanley said, "Well,
the structure of the company was
intentionally designed to balance the
desire to offer investors the
opportunity for periodic liquidity with
the less liquid characteristics of the
portfolio. That said, there is a feeling
that maybe some of these loans are not
marked according to where they could
actually trade in markets, which is the
reason why Apollo is saying we're going
to create public marks and we're going
to show you what they are. But that is
the fear right now. What are some of
these companies not disclosing and
trying to cover up by not necessarily
liquidating the underlying assets.
>> comfortable can you be in this moment in
financial markets? The energy story
leading to a reappraisal of the future
path of monetary policy in places like
the Federal Reserve, less easing, places
like the ECB maybe an interest rate
hike. But at the same time, capital
markets are still open. We heard that
from Kevin Foley of JP Morgan talking to
us earlier this week. Deals are getting
done. His words. We just had the biggest
one-day IG supply on record earlier this
week. You've got spreads both on
investment grade and high yield still
pretty tight and an equity market very,
very close to all-time highs. Can you
take comfort from that given what's
happening elsewhere? If we hadn't been
talking about what's going on in the
Middle East, this is would be the front
page story every single day all day
because it's really underpinning this
question of how long can capital markets
continue to support a really a buoyant
market. Right now, it seems like
investors are willing to invest if there
is real deterioration in some of these
loans, if you do see a lack of
willingness to finance some of these
projects on the part of private credit,
how much does that curtail the
enthusiasm coming particularly from the
tech sector? Futures this morning
negative by just 0.4% on the S&P 500. On
our radar this morning, one of our top
stories, Morgan Stanley capping
withdrawals from its multi-billion
dollar private credit fund. The bank
limiting redemptions at its North Haven
private income fund to 5% of shares.
Elsewhere, Iraq shutting down its oil
terminals after tankers were hit off the
nation's coast. A port in a mall also
suspending operations following an
Iranian drone attack. And finally, the
United States joining a record release
of global oil reserves.
The releases is out of the US strategic
petroleum reserve, but they'll go over
about 4 months. Uh but this conflict I
don't think goes that long. I think we
will have the Straits of Hormuz open
well before then. Hopefully in the next
few weeks we will see ship traffic
returning The White House pledged to add
172 million barrels of oil to market
with average gasoline prices hitting 360
per gallon.
>> And that price, that average price has
increased more than 20% in the past less
than 2 weeks. So it gives you a sense of
the urgency of why. Is this going to
materially suppress price increases in
the short term? As Jeff Currie said,
it's about the flow of oil on a daily
basis. And the maximum at least in the
euro region is about 2 million barrels a
day versus the 10 million barrels a day
that they actually need. So in the US it
might medicate long-term price
fluctuations. In the short term it might
not cap things so much.
>> 120 days, that's far out, especially for
this administration that wants to keep
gasoline prices depressed. When you look
>> yeah, they are nationally 3.6 per gallon
of oil, in the president's beloved state
of Florida it's actually 3.7. They're
going to keep going up. They are closer
to four than closer to three, and that
is a huge problem. And it all comes down
to the Strait of Hormuz. Secretary
Wright talked about at some point the
Navy will be able to do this even though
he did tweet and then deleted the tweet
that they couldn't. The Wall Street
Journal says the US is turning down
repeated requests for tanker escorts
from oil companies according to Gulf
countries. So right now it doesn't look
like they have the capacity to escort
tankers even if they wanted to.
>> Which is why Brent still in the 90s.
Brent crude right now 96. Brent briefly
topping 100 after more tankers were
attacked in the Persian Gulf. The IEA
saying the war is causing the biggest
ever disruption to the market as it
gears up for its largest emergency
release ever. Jorge Leon of Rystad
Energy writes in the key variable is the
duration of the war. If it lasts 2
months price could peak at 115. If it
goes on for 4 months they could reach
135. Ho Hey, joins us now for more. Ho
Hey, we almost hit 120 on Sunday
evening. Are all bets off now?
I think so. I think it really depends on
the on the duration. And um and as at
least as correctly mentioned, the idea
of escorting vessels, um I think right
now we don't see any progress there. So,
at the end of the day, this really comes
down to maths. The Strait of Hormuz,
around 10 million barrels per day that
we think are going to be closed because
of the of the of the of the situation.
Uh SPRs, uh 400 million barrels, that is
not going to offset any any any upside
price pressure that we're seeing right
now. And interestingly, when the
announcement of the
400 million barrels were were was was
done, prices barely reacted because I
think that the market already assumed
that something was going to happen. But
uh last time that we saw SPRs being
released was in March 2022, in the
middle of the Russia-Ukraine war. And
back then, when the announcement was
made, prices fell by $5 per barrel.
Right now, they they didn't. And this
really shows how important, how critical
the situation is at the moment.
>> Ho Hey, we've seen production being cut.
You've seen certain shutdowns taking
place in certain places. Restarting from
there isn't necessarily painless. And I
wonder from your perspective what kind
of damage we're already doing to supply
chains.
Th- that's the key, supply chain. I
mean, you really hit the supply chain.
And more importantly, from the geology
point of view, the moment that you shut
in production, you are changing the
pressure of the reservoir. And that
could potentially damage your reservoir
forever. So, we think that coming back
to to, you know, normal production,
steady state production, is not a matter
of days. It's essentially a matter of of
weeks, if not months. So, yes, the
Strait of Hormuz could be reopened
tomorrow. Uh it will take a a few weeks
to clear up all the logistical backlog.
But then, you also have the problem of
ramping up production again, and some
countries, especially Iraq, might have
severe problems doing that. In response
to higher oil prices, you've seen a lot
of flights that have been either
canceled or prices of the tickets go up
substantially. You've seen it mandates
to use either carpooling or bike to work
in certain places, particularly in
Southeast Asia. How much demand
destruction have you already started to
see emerge?
Excellent point. I think that demand
destruction is one of the important
levers that how the market is going to
react. We've seen during March, at the
start of the conflict, around 1.4
million barrels per day of demand
destruction. That that is quite quite
significant, 1.4 million barrels per
day. Initially, aviation, and now
gradually that impact is going to be
translated into transport fuels and and
heating oil. And if the conflict lasts
for longer, then we are probably going
to see a refueling of inflation, which
could change the attitude of central
central banks around the world. To give
you a data point, before the war, we
thought that the oil demand was going to
grow by 1 million barrels per day. If
the war extends for around 4 months,
let's say, oil demand growth is cut down
to just 400,000 barrels per day. So,
that's that's really showing you how
important the demand destruction could
be in the in the coming days and weeks.
One of the other levers, Jorge, is more
production from other areas that aren't
as affected, like Russia. Do you have a
sense of how much more Russia is earning
as a result of higher energy prices and
the fact that it's actually increasing
production to help meet the needs of its
allies, like China?
Sure. We've seen the waivers that India
received to to continue importing
Russian crude. Before the sanctions,
Russia was exporting around 1.6 million
barrels per day to India. Then last
numbers before the war was around
800,000 barrels per day, so quite a
significant decrease.
And with the waivers, we think that
there's a a bit of an upside potential,
around 1.2 million barrels per day, but
importantly, there is a lot of Russian
oil right now in offshore
storage. So, the fact that India is
going to be able to increase its
purchases of Russian crude does not
directly mean that Russia could start
pumping up more. I think what it means
is that the offshore storage will be
gradually cleared up. And going forward,
we think that the upside potential for
Russia is actually quite limited, no
more than 200 300,000 barrels per day.
Apart from that, you don't really have
much reaction in the very short term.
Yes, shale can react, but that is
something towards the end of the year,
and again, very limited. I don't think
more than 300,000 barrels per day. There
was a report even just this morning
about Indian oil purchases from Russia
increased by nearly 45%
in March. So, basically, does Russia
just get back their entire export
capacity that they had in India before
the United States started putting
pressure on New Delhi?
Probably probably yes. Now, the big
question there is what happens when the
war ends. Will those waivers expire? At
the moment, those waivers are supposed
to expire at the end of April. Now, when
the war ends, will those sanctions be
put back into place or not? And my my
hunch here is that once you lift the
waivers one once you lift the the
sanctions, it is pretty difficult to go
back and implementing them again.
I remember when the Red Sea was was shut
basically for months and tankers and
cargo ships didn't want to go through it
because of what was going on with the
Houthis. Even if the United States,
Jorge, is able to reopen the Strait of
Hormuz, when will it go back to
normal?
And that's that's the key variable here.
I don't think that
first of all, the scenario of the US is
courting vessels. We don't see appetite
from shipping companies to take that
that option at all right now. The
mechanism is still not in place, and we
don't think that this is likely to
happen anytime soon. So, to me, the only
way forward for the Strait of Hormuz to
be reopened is through two channels:
regime change, which at the moment
doesn't seem very feasible, and the
other one is through a ceasefire.
Jorja is going to say thank you, sir.
Jorja Leon of Rice Dad Energy, it
doesn't look like we're close to either
right now. And the criticism is starting
to come from international leaders. And
I think I go back to that Chancellor
note, that Chancellor Friedrich Merz
note from earlier this week, that it
doesn't appear to be an exit plan. There
is some comfort, I think, on this side
of things in the US and capital markets
that there will be an exit. There is a
fear elsewhere, particularly from those
that are exposed to this story, more
exposed to the energy story, that there
is no exit plan. And it seems like right
now, even within the US, you're hearing
some rumblings of the same moral
question if Iran is viewing this as an
existential risk, and they're trying to
attack ships in the Strait of Hormuz to
show, "Don't mess with us, cuz this is
what we're going to do. We're going to
shut down supplies of 20% of your oil at
a significant part of your part of your
fertilizer. They're going to keep going
no matter who it hits." That doesn't
seem to be something easily counterable
or really reopenable unless you ask add
some serious force.
>> And when you hear from the president,
you hear almost both sides. He said
yesterday practically there's nothing
left to target in Iran, which makes you
think potentially this is going to
unwind pretty soon. And then last night
he said, "We don't want to leave early,
right?" Basically saying we want to
finish the job. Well, what does that
finishing the job look like? Is it
regime change? We're going to be there a
lot longer. WTI 91, Brent crude this
morning 96. We'll keep tracking those
prices for you. And next on the program,
fueling inflation fears.
When oil prices go up, headline
inflation goes up, that gets much
bigger. A damage is going to take months
to unwind. There is no policy response
that can stop this ascent in crude.
None. That was Jeff Currie. We'll have
more on that in just a moment. Plus,
we'll catch up with Veronica Clark of
Citi from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Brent on the month up by 30 to 35% and
still down by something like $23 on the
week from the high.
Just gives you an idea of this wild ride
over the month so far and particularly
the last few days on Brent crude. Brent
crude 9620 and up by 4.6% on the
session. WTI just north of 90, pushing
91, up by more than 4% also. How many
times have you heard this take? This was
Deep Pak Puri of Deutsche Bank
yesterday. Any major price increase
would be tackled by the administration
through a combination of measures.
Comfort. This from Chris Harvey of CIBC.
Stable credit spreads, decent EPS growth
implies the current slump will be a
viable pullback. Once again, comfort.
And you see that in the equity market so
far this morning, down by just 0.4% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, down by a
third. People feel somewhat comfortable
with this situation. Part of the reason
why is because of the policy response.
They expect either withdrawal from the
region and end the war or some sort of
pivot from President Trump or maybe uh
some sort of win that they can then
announce and then end this. It
>> seems less likely that it's that clean
and I think a lot of people keep talking
about this. People also expect some
policy response from the Fed. Well, what
kind of policy response can they
actually give if ultimately it is an
inflationary shock, maybe stagflationary
shock, but in the short term, definitely
increasing prices.
>> central bank is not feeling comfortable
right now. Two-year bond yields close to
the highest level since September of
last year. The two-year this morning
3.65. Under Savannah's this morning,
fueling inflation fears.
When oil prices go up, headline
inflation goes up, that gets much bigger
and damage is going to take months to
unwind. There is no policy response that
can stop this ascent in crude, none. Get
long, buckle your seatbelt, hang on for
the ride, and we're going to reprice
this thing. Wonderful work from Jeff
Currie of Carlyle yesterday, direct,
blunt. Here's the latest this morning.
Surging crude costs adding to inflation
concerns for the global economy. Average
gasoline prices in the US hitting their
highest level since the May of 2004.
Veronica Clark of Citi writing inflation
risks so far are mostly for headline,
but the longer it lasts, there could be
more pass-through to core. Veronica
joins us now for more. Veronica, good
morning.
>> Good morning. You stated three cuts 75
basis points, I believe, in April start.
Yeah, yeah.
>> your view on things?
>> No, not yet. Um, obviously risk that
those cuts could start later, um, but we
are still expecting 75 basis points.
We'll obviously have to see how the
latest developments unfold, um, but
there has been a pretty clear pattern
the last couple years in the labor
market data where it's really spring and
summer we start to see that weakening
and of course we've already had some
weaker labor market data recently, um,
but in recent years that means the Fed
is is cutting by by the fall. So, what
do you say about this move that we're
seeing? How do you characterize this
energy shock right now? Does it fuel
inflation? Does it hit growth? Or is it
something you can ignore?
>> It's both. Yeah, it it is, you know,
raising those stagflation, you know,
scenarios back to the the table again.
Um, I mean, for now there's, you know,
the the first-order effect is certainly
on headline inflation. Um, it is, you
know, not we're not even halfway through
March yet. We'll see what gas prices do
for the whole month, but you know, we're
probably looking at something like a 50
basis point boost to March headline CPI.
It's that's big. Um, but that's from gas
prices and then, you know, the longer it
lasts, of course, the risk for core get
get more. Um, look for things like
airfares to potentially rise, core core
goods prices. Um, but those higher gas
prices, I mean, that does mean consumers
have less to spend on on other things.
That is a growth shock. I hear the point
about long-term it could be
disinflationary. It could reduce uh
spending power in other categories. That
said, from a perception standpoint,
inflation's already above target. Core
CPI PCE is expected to actually be a
little bit uncomfortably hot that we get
later tomorrow. Goldman Sachs cutting
their forecast in terms of how much the
Fed can cut saying it just isn't
plausible given this backdrop. Why do
you think it is?
>> Yeah, so I think this is it is a supply
shock, right? And the last supply shock
we had were, you know, reminiscent of of
the pandemic. Um but this is a very
different macro backdrop than we had in
the pandemic. Um I'm very encouraged
still by what I see in slowing wage
growth. That's what you get with a
loosening labor market. Yesterday CPI
data, shelter inflation is slowing a
lot. That that should continue. Should
be abnormally weak even maybe this year.
Um so this is not the demand backdrop
that supports more persistent inflation.
What you would want to watch for is if
inflation expectations start to rise,
then of course that gets more concerning
and that's why for now the Fed is going
to be cautious. They're not doing
anything now, but we'll see how we get
to the summer. Citi's house view has
been different from the rest of Wall
Street. You have thought that this was a
weaker economy than a lot of people
imagined that the labor market actually
was experiencing cracks that people
weren't imagining. Based on this shock,
which is a shock and is going to cause
increased oil prices, is there a greater
chance of even rolling over into
recession? I mean, does it change the
parameters of what could happen based on
the starting point of this type of
weakness?
>> Yeah, it feels really uncomfortable that
this has been a very gradually weakening
labor market for a couple years while
we've had very strong growth and while
we've had easing financial conditions.
Um that seems to be changing now and so
I would worry that yeah, business, you
know, transportation, energy costs and
everything are going up. You've already
been looking to cut labor costs for a
couple years. You know, what if that
gets you to that final stage of some
larger layoffs or at least, you know,
not not hiring. Um and it does feel a
little bit like we're a frog in a pot of
boiling water where the unemployment
rate every year does still rise
something like three to four tenths and
at some point it's not so low anymore.
You mentioned airlines and the cost
potentially for ticket prices. Willie
Walsh, who runs the International Air
Transportation Association, this morning
said you're looking at probably an 8 or
9% increase. He said it's inevitable. We
already see that with a lot of Asia
carriers as well because of where jet
fuel is.
Don't you think that that is going to be
incredibly difficult for inflation going
forward?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that airline component is
the first one that you would watch air
fares of core inflation. It's really
maybe like a 1 to 3 month lag. It
happens pretty quickly where we start to
see those rising. That That isn't our
forecast a bit. But I think the the big
question for broader inflation is, yeah,
the consumer has been weakening
somewhat. You know, spending power will
be coming down just as job growth is
slowing. How much are you able to pass
on these higher costs to final price?
>> But don't we see it potentially a
knock-on effect like where our
farm-to-table kind of economy that we
saw during the pandemic when then the
Fed said inflation was transitory and it
ended up not being transitory.
>> Yeah. Yeah, this is just a very
different labor market though than we
had then. You know, we had a very tight
labor market. We had unemployment
benefits that were keeping people out of
the labor force. You had very strong
wage growth.
Short-term expectations probably
mattered a lot more than too where you
were seeing prices rise. You would ask
for a higher wage. You would get that
higher wage because there was no one
else to hire. That is a very different
transmission mechanism this time.
>> Which is tracking this cascade through
international supply chains. And this
headline just crossed the Bloomberg that
India is asking China for a form of
fertilizer, urea, as the war-induced gas
crunch hits plants. You're just seeing
it more and more. It's not just the oil
story. It's the product story,
particularly in places like Asia. An
even bigger proportion of urea goes
through the Strait of Hormuz. And the
reason why this is so concerning is it
is the season when you have to be
planting. And this is the reason why
you've seen actually agricultural spot
commodity prices increase by the most
going back to 2023. People are starting
to sniff this out. This could be a
bigger concern. This is what we eat
every day. And that's the reason why
people are looking beyond just the oil
shock. And look at potentially diesel
prices. That's what the entire
construction, manufacturing, factory
orders, that's what they all run on even
in the United States. There could be
knock-on effects of this that aren't
just hitting crude barrels.
>> is the point that Jeff is making, Jeff
Currie of Carlyle, of course, that even
if you lead to a period of de-escalation
here, let's say there is an off-ramp.
Don't know where it comes from or when
it comes, but let's say there is one.
After that, what are the lessons you've
learned? Do you just move on back to
normal? Jeff Currie doesn't think so. It
leads to a period of hoarding. The
Chinese right now are curbing exports.
Everyone starts to buckle down and
prioritize their own electorate. Not
China, there are no elections, but their
own people.
That's always going to be the priority.
So, where India asked China, of course,
there's some kind of geopolitical
relationship there they might explore.
Don't know. But, in the future, you
start to see hoarding. That's the bull
case that Jeff is suggesting here.
Frankly, we saw that in 2020 after the
pandemic. We saw people rejigger their
supply chain lines, talk about keeping
greater inventories. It became a hanging
cost. At the same time, people thought
it was worthwhile for insurance.
To the extent that people were getting a
little bit complacent, this just really
highlights how they can't do that.
Veronica, when does this come become too
hard to ignore? Yeah. I mean, it's we're
only a week and a half into it or so. 13
days. Yeah, 14 days, 2 weeks. Um yeah, I
think after a whole month, yeah, you're
yeah, you're definitely getting more
worried. Veronica, thank you. Appreciate
it. Veronica Clark there of Citi. The
headlines keep coming, and right now
Wall Street comfortable still to a
degree to look through the shock.
There's been a shift in the past couple
of days where maybe an off-ramp isn't as
easy as President Trump saying, "I want
this war over, victory accomplished."
Right now, it seems like there is a
shift looking at whether Iran is willing
to play ball and what it'll take to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
>> Stocks this morning down by 0.5% on the
S&P 500. In the next hour, we'll catch
up with Jean Bavon of BlackRock, Libby
Cantrill of PIMCO, Stephen Major of
Tradition, Sonali Desai of Franklin
Templeton Fixed Income. From New York
City, good morning to you all. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
You're going to feel that pressure of
higher oil prices. So, there's no
escaping that.
>> If oil stays up for two or three months,
it bleeds into a broader inflation.
>> both on goods and energy, we have a
problem.
>> The headwinds for the consumer are
building.
>> Get long, buckle your seatbelt, hang on
for the ride, and we're going to
re-price this thing.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now, and your
scores, the price action looks like
this. Let's start with crude, Brent and
WTI. Brent briefly triple digits once
again overnight. This morning, 96.42, up
by 4.8%. WTI, up by 4.5 and 91 handle on
WTI crude. In the equity market, push it
through stocks, a slight pullback on the
S&P 500, down by 0.5 on the Russell.
It's where the pain is, if you can call
it that. We're down by 1% on the Russell
so far this morning.
>> Yeah, a lot of people on risk assets are
trying to wrap their heads around how
long it could possibly take, not getting
any answers. They were in a sort of void
of any real information about the
trajectory of this conflict. The here
and now know is scary and potentially a
real dampening factor to growth and a
boosting factor to inflation. It's a
toxic mix of stagflation that nobody
wants to see. Some asset classes are
taking that seriously, others not so
much.
>> We've talked about this a few times. In
equities, there is comfort that this
will be over, and you can look through
it. On the ground, the facts are still
very concerning. Goldman, City, Standard
Chartered telling their Dubai staff to
work from home. And we've seen energy
and energy infrastructure take a hit
across the region. Tankers, a few of
them, catching fire. Absolutely. And
when you hear from Jeff Currie, he's
saying there is no policy response that
can stop this ascent we are seeing in
crude oil and crude prices. And then it
comes down to other things like you were
mentioning, fertilizer, diesel, the
product of crude. All of this is moving
higher. And at some point, if this is
persistent, it is going to hit growth.
And that's what the equity market's
going to have to grapple with.
>> We talk about the boiling frog, turning
up the heat just slowly every single
day. Private markets. I just want to go
back to the headlines. Morgan Stanley
capping redemptions, Cliff Water
limiting redemptions, JP Morgan. This is
all this week. Restricting lending to
private credit funds, marking down the
value of certain loans. It's hit after
hit after hit. And it just slowly turns
the heat up every day. And there are two
issues here. On one hand, it's a
question of liquidity, selling some of
these liquid loans to retail investors
through different vehicles, and a
question of what happens when they want
to leave and whether that causes prices
to go down. That's something people can
handle, and you see some of the big
investment managers saying, "All right,
we can take advantage of this and
actually consolidate some of this market
share." On the other hand, if you have
that in addition to a geopolitical shock
that pressures the economy, is there
real credit risk that starts to build,
especially if a lot of investors feel
burned and pull back some of their
balance sheets? That's kind of the
question that people are grappling with
at this moment.
>> is coming at precisely the wrong time.
Equity futures right now in the S&P
negative by 0.5%
Coming up this hour, catch up with Jean
Bovin of BlackRock as crude climbs.
Libby Cantrill of Pimco as Iran tightens
its grip on Hormuz and Steve Major of
Tradition as the specter of stagflation
haunts global bond markets. We begin
this hour with crude prices rallying as
the war in the Middle East widens.
Bloomberg's Joumanna Di Sacheci joins us
now for more. Joumanna, welcome back to
the program. We talked briefly about the
tension in the region so far this
morning. The Iranians did put out a list
of conditions to win this thing. What's
the distance between the sides at the
moment?
Well, they did put a list out of
conditions out that was you're referring
to a post put up by the president of the
Iranian president Hassan Rouhani, which
by the way appears to not have a lot of
influence over overall decision-making.
We saw a similar situation over the
course of the weekend when he sort of
apologized to Gulf states for targeting
them saying that if they did harbor US
assets then they would be subject to
attacks, but later on he was
contradicted
and almost pushed aside by more hardline
members of the Revolutionary Guard who
went on to say that they have no plans
to negotiate whatsoever with the United
States. They're not planning on
looking for a ceasefire at any point
soon. And I think from the Iranian
perspective now it's very clear that
they are intent on inflicting as much
economic cost as possible with these key
targets on energy, on infrastructure
hubs, on logistics hubs, on airports.
The attacks are not diminishing. They're
actually increasing with intensity and
with a specific targets in mind. And one
thing that I would say also is there's a
lot of daylight between what the US are
asking the Iranians for and what the
Iranians have put on the table
overnight. They say that they will only
come back to the negotiating table if
the US give them reassurances that they
won't attack again. Under what situation
would the US underwrite that
possibility? It's not going to happen.
President Trump also saying that they
want he wants to see unconditional
surrender. So still a massive amount of
distance between the two sides and you
could say that you know, the events of
the last couple of days irrespective of
you know, the policy adjustments that
the Trump administration has introduced
the IAA announcement hasn't made such an
impact on the market because at the end
of the day this straight is still
effectively shut and it is dangerous for
vessels to pass through not just the
straight but the Persian Gulf and around
the Gulf of Oman and even the bottom of
the Arabian Peninsula now. Jumana, out
of a abundance of caution you're
broadcasting from home today. Our
colleagues are working from home in
Dubai. Citi, Goldman Sachs and Standard
Chartered and their staff ultimately to
stay away from the office. Jumana, how
long before Gulf nations need to make a
difficult decision about whether to step
in and fight this too?
Look, and that is a a calculus that I
think you know many people have been
asking but at the same time
the the hope out of Gulf nations is that
this somehow does de-escalate. They want
to bring down the temperature. They are
intercepting a huge number of
projectiles that have been fired towards
them. You just think about the UAE
alone. We're getting up to 2,000
projectiles being fired just towards the
UAE since the beginning of the war. That
surpasses the number of projectiles that
Iran sent over to Israel in the 12-day
war, right? And this is not technically
an enemy quote unquote of Iran.
But what has happened is overnight we
started to see bits of debris hitting
residential buildings, some areas that
are very close to the financial district
and there is concern obviously that the
interception of some of these drones
could sustain some more civilian
infrastructure damage and on the back of
that many institutions including banks,
Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Citi, we've been
reporting on on them this morning have
advised their employees to stay home out
of an abundance of caution. This is not
a formal evacuation order from the DIFC.
Bloomberg ourselves, you can see I'm not
in the office today.
We equally are staying back out of an
abundance of caution. But the hope from
the Gulf states is that this does die
down. They have maintained their right
to self-defense but equally they have
said that the primary objective here is
to find a diplomatic solution out of it.
No signals that they want to get
involved militarily. Jimena, we know
this is an immensely stressful moment
for our colleagues in the region, so
thanks for making some time for us this
morning. Jimena Becerra there out of
Dubai this morning. That's the path we
don't want to go down at all. That's the
road to escalation. The issue is that
Dubai and other areas, other cities in
the region have built whole economy on
being a sort of safe bastion, on being
the cross-section between the East and
the West when it comes to finances. How
much does this potentially undermine
that? At what point does this have to go
on for people to say, "Wait a second.
Maybe it's not worth the level of
expansion that we had planned."
>> 97 on Brent this morning. Here's the
view on Wall Street. Jean Evan of
Blackrock writes in the energy land
supply chain shock is likely to be
short-lived. We see disruptions measured
in weeks rather than in months. Jean
joins us now for more. Jean, it's good
to see you. Good to see you. Can you
ignore this?
No. Cannot ignore it, but I think
we need to two things need to be
tracked, right? We need to see the
the disruptions as they continue to
evolve and
the Strait of Hormuz is the thing to
watch. How many flows of you know,
tankers and so on we see going through.
We're about 16% in our analysis of the
normal level.
So this is this is clearly a massive
shock for now, but at the same time we
think we need to think about the
the response, right? I mean, oil prices
you know, the conflict is driving oil
prices, but oil prices will be driving
the response as well. And that part I
think needs to be kept in the in the on
the radar as well.
I don't think the world can sustain
months of hundred plus dollar. And
people will react to that. So I think
that's why I mean, we think this is not
days for sure. Uh
but it's not months either. I mean,
maybe a couple of months, but it's not
months. So I think this is more of a
we're in a realm of weeks. Weeks to uh
Just hold on a second. You said maybe a
couple of months. Goldman is out saying
that if this goes on for 60 days,
they're forecasting crude in the '90s
for the fourth quarter. That's not spot
right now. They're talking about where
December is currently trading. December
is currently trading where? '70s, '80s
over the last week or so? 90 in the
fourth quarter, doesn't that change the
story at all?
Well, the market has already been uh you
know, assuming we're going to get like
the kind of '90s plus number until you
know, into June, right? So, and then
declining to December.
Uh that's already a couple of months and
that's the that's the world I'm
describing here. So, if we go with what
the curve is pricing, I think it's a
it's a shock. It's going to add to an
inflation narrative or it's going to
challenge the the benign inflation
narrative that had been prevalent
before. So, I think that's that is a big
story there. But, at the same time, it's
not the stagflationary shock that um you
know, would be a a risk. Uh and that
would be more like if we're in months of
100 plus, then it's you know, shaving
0.5% on on growth and it's
it's an additional 1% point on inflation
globally in this environment. So, that
would be that would be a significant
risk.
>> When you talk about policy response,
usually people are talking not just
about fiscal, not just about political,
but also about the monetary policy
response. And right now, the market is
pricing out the chance of
the Federal Reserve in particular
cutting rates. They're talking about the
ECB hiking rates. So, I'm just wondering
how that changes your expectation, why
you still think this is long-term
inflationary even if policy makers are
going to tighten the screws on global
growth.
I think the uh it's long-term
inflationary because for us, like even
before the conflict where we've been
I've been talking about here on occasion
about this, we think that there's a
structural inflation story in this
environment. This is a world that was
shaped by supply
because of big mega force. AI we thought
was like inflationary before it's going
to be deflationary. And the geopolitical
fragmentation is the world becoming less
efficient from an economic perspective.
And as a result, cost on ongoing basis
uh you know, being higher and that
pushing inflation. So that was the
basis.
We thought that the Fed would be cutting
rates. It's not because necessarily we
thought it was obvious from a macro
perspective that it was needed but like
that was pretty much baked in
and I think we're going to be now
questioning those cuts because of
the environment is going to look very
different from inflation perspective but
I still think we're going to see a
response that's going to be more muted
relative to the inflation shock we're
going to get. So so yes maybe we
recalibrate monetary policy but not
enough to avoid the inflation.
>> How much is the movement in the long end
of the yield curve tied to inflation
expectations longer term and how much is
it tied to fiscal deficits and the
widening of them in response to trying
to stave off some of the cost of living
concerns that people around the world
are having? Yeah I think it's it's
difficult to distinguish which one is
the main driver. I see that more as a
it's a package. It's a narrative that
was one where you know the world is in a
benign inflation trajectory.
Yes there might be deficit but don't
really care about this and so that's
where we were before you know in the
last two weeks. And now
it's it's a shift in narrative so we're
going to see more inflation.
I mean yes it's going to be more of a
headline inflation story than core
inflation in the in a but it's changes
the perception and then the debt level
we've been talking about this as well.
Debt was requiring in our view a greater
risk a compensation for for taking
duration risk in this environment. It
was not happening was kind of a puzzle
why we didn't see more of that
normalization and I think now you know
people look at the spending for for the
war and so on and that's start to change
the narrative. So I think very difficult
to distinguish but you see a combination
of
you know
challenge to a narrative that go all in
the direction of somewhat higher rates
from here. You still like infrastructure
sectors in Europe but once again Europe
is hit with another massive energy. LNG
from Qatar is going to be incredibly
difficult to get to Europe. They don't
have the pipeline flows they used to
have from Russia. How challenging is it
to invest in Europe right now?
Well, I think for the infrastructure
piece of the thesis that I I I think
that adds to it, right? So, this is
about um what would be the long-term
lessons from the last 2 weeks. I think
we're going to see a different behavior
with respect to energy. I think there's
going to be even more of a move towards
some kind of a self-sufficiency.
Uh try to avoid some of the dependencies
that have been highlighted, and that's
about infrastructure. So,
uh I think we're going to see some
longer-term uh you know, development on
that front that are on on the
infrastructure side. But, to your other
point, I think this is uh a lot more
challenging for Europe what's happening
now than it is for the US. So, as a
macro story, it is much more damaging
for Europe. I mean, it's not surprising
that the market in Europe is responding
much more uh you know, you mentioned
earlier the equity market seems to be
looking through that. That's true for
US, but in Europe, I mean, we're we're
still like accumulating losses week uh
day after day there. So, I think
liquidity is John, it's good to see you.
It always is. Thanks for dropping by,
sir. Jean-Pierre Van der of BlackRock.
Now, when we quote futures, we're
quoting the front month. So, Brent crude
right now is at about 96.80, and we've
been comfortable with this story because
the December contract, which is really
where the equity story is going to come
from, the anticipatory asset class, the
nature of stocks, has been trading much
lower than that. The December contract
at the moment trades at about 78. But,
if you experience fourth quarter prices
$12 north of that in the '90s plus,
which ultimately is the forecast from
Goldman, if this goes 2 months, how much
has the world changed? And under those
conditions, can the stock market really
ignore the story? If you start to see a
bigger move further out. Steve Auth of
Federated Hermes said that that was sort
of the line in the sand for him. $90 a
barrel on average for the United States
would curtail growth, would actually
curtail consumption. How many people
start to come around to that as those
forward prices start to change?
>> Brent crude this morning, 96.98,
just short of 97. We're up by 5% on the
session. Up next on the program,
fighting to the finish.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 million barrels of oil. Oil prices
are already coming back down and it's
going to come down, but we we're not
leaving until that job is finished and
it's going to be very fast. Up next
we'll catch up with Libby Cantrill of
Pimco live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Crude still climbing 97 through triple
digits once again overnight. 97.03 on
Brent, call it 05 up by more than 5%.
WTI 91.70 and up by 5% also. This from
Jeff Currie of Carlyle just yesterday.
Policy options are not going to break
crude descent while the strait is
closed. The German foreign minister
saying nobody here in the region sees
themselves in a position provide the
appropriate protection through that
waterway. Yeah, and that's the reason
why people are not talking about an easy
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz. The
policy response has been massive. 400
million barrels being released from the
IEA in terms of the European region and
that alone has not really suppressed
prices. So, what will? And there she
finds us this morning, fighting to the
finish.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 million barrels of oil, which will
substantially reduce the oil prices as
we end this threat to America and this
threat to the world. We don't want to
leave early, do we? UH
WE GOT TO FINISH THE JOB, RIGHT? Oil
prices are already coming back down and
it's going to come down, but we we're
not leaving until that job is finished
and it's going to be very fast. So,
here's the latest this morning. Crude
climbing even as President Trump vows to
lower prices with a massive release from
the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has the
latest. Hey, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as we see
this coordinated action from the
International Energy Agency, the
executive director of the IEA came out
and said that the number one thing that
could be done to stabilize oil markets
would of course be a resumption of
traffic through the Strait of Hormuz.
But as we continue to see disruptions,
the Trump administration is now set to
release 172 million barrels from the
strategic petroleum reserve. But our own
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say that
the total full coordinated release of
400 million barrels only amounts to
about 20 days of flows through the
strait. That of course is raising
questions about the duration of this as
the US energy secretary Christopher
Wright says that it will take the US
about 4 months to fully deliver the
supplies. Still, with that said, we are
expecting uh President Trump to come out
with perhaps some more details about how
this mission is going to continue as he
says that the US could be ahead of
schedule.
>> Tyler Kendall in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Libby Cantrill of Pimco with
this to say, "The longer this conflict
plays out, the more ugly the political
environment may become." Libby joins us
around the table. Libby, good morning.
It's good to see you.
What do you make of the policy response
so far?
Yeah, so I think I mean the the
expectation was that there would be a
dramatic release from the strategic
petroleum reserve, and of course that's
what we have seen. I do think that as
your previous guest have pointed out,
that is only so effective. Um in terms
of other tools, the president is pretty
limited. Uh there obviously Russian
sanctions that he can tweak. We saw a
little bit of that
uh last week. Uh export controls, that's
really an extreme. Um some modifications
or or or exemptions to the Jones Act.
But outside of this is sort of all
nibbling around the at the edges in
terms of um really addressing the you
know what looks like maybe a $100 oil
and of course then the price of gas,
which is really the issue politically,
domestically. And this is exactly the
opposite of what Republicans plan was
for 2026. It was going to be all about
affordability. It was going to be
pushing their agenda, even if maybe they
weren't able to get things done. They
were going to be, at least rhetorically,
talking about it. And now that's been,
you know, completely kind of undermined
by by this. We came into the new year
with the White House squarely focused on
affordability. How do they change their
message now going into the summer and
going to the midterms where it's clear
the house likely is going to flip? But
I'm talking to people who think that
there is a chance Republicans lose the
Senate.
Yeah, so I mean I think again, I think
this is sort of their their uh their
sort of best-laid plans here have, you
know, gone a bit a bit awry. I mean I
think what the hope is is that this is
going to be able to be finished, right,
going into the summer months. Now, of
course, I mean it's it sounds sort of
flippant, but, you know, wars or
conflicts are easy to start, much, much
harder to finish, particularly uh given
the complexity of this of this region.
So, you know, that that intention, of
course, may not be realized. I do think
though, just, you know, again, you saw a
little bit of this yesterday with
President Trump trying to get back onto
that sort of affordability, you know,
mantle. But again, I mean people, you
know, voters are
are are not are not stupid, right? They
they they see what's happening. The
price of the I just can't reinforce this
enough because if you go back to spring
of 2022 and you had, you know, almost $5
oil in June of 2022, um that that
president's approval rating President
Biden at that point, and he took a huge
hit. They're basically correlated. If
you look at the graph of the
presidential approval rating versus the
price of gas, these things, you know,
gas and groceries, people really care
about these kitchen table issues. And
so, um you know, people may not be
paying attention to exactly what's
happening from a foreign policy
perspective and in terms of some maybe
the wins that the US may ultimately
achieve, but they really do care about
the price of the pump. And this is going
to be a big a big headwind going into
the midterms.
>> And Biden was then forced to abandon
another foreign policy priority, which
was to make Saudi Arabia or Mohammed bin
Salman a pariah, and he actually went to
Jeddah. When it comes to potentially
what the US is going to have to or the
administration is going to have to ask
Congress for, is there appetite for more
defense spending going to the midterms?
>> This is going to be a very difficult
vote, I think. I mean, that what what it
looks like is that the White House is
preparing what's called a supplemental
package. You know, could be $50 billion,
could be more, honestly, just given sort
of the the pace of spending and the
extent of the conflict. Uh they will
probably, you know, as Anne Marie knows,
they probably they usually like to add
sweeteners in order to get that 60
votes. That's what they need in the
Senate. Republicans only have 53 votes
right now, so you kind of by definition,
you need eight Democrats because Ron
Paul will probably vote against it. It
will be a very difficult vote. And it
just means that more deficit spending,
right? It means that we could see a
supplemental in sort of the $100 billion
range, you know, potentially. So, I
think it's going to be a very, you know,
very tricky vote. Um you know, I think
going back though to your excellent
point though about the Senate, and this
is something you we've been looking at
two big indicators going into the
midterm elections that sort of have
correlated with previous election
outcomes. One is just called the generic
ballot, sort of the general view of one
party over another. And the other is an
enthusiasm gap. How enthusiastic are one
set of voters over another? And you
know, the the the generic ballot, it's
sort of plus five for Democrats. That's
sort of like pointing to a fine night,
you probably the House flipping, but but
Republicans keeping the Senate. The
enthusiasm gap, however, that is
suggesting a wave election. And so that
is just those are just our two variables
to sort of look at as we go into the
midterm election. But to your point, I
think that the conventional wisdom,
Republicans would keep the Senate
because of that challenging map for
Democrats, that could be thrown out the
window again the longer this persists.
The Iran war has definitely taken a lot
of the energy of everyone's agendas
recently. But the government's still in
partial shutdown, and if you want to
travel, not only is it going to cost you
more because of higher oil prices, but
also the lines are going to take you
potentially substantially longer because
TSA agents are not showing up. What are
they going to get reopened?
Yeah, I mean this is I think fault on
both sides honestly and Republicans and
Democrats. You can probably say that
about a lot on Washington these days.
Uh you know, and again people's view of
Congress just in general, it's like at
low you know, all-time lows and and this
is just going to make them more angry,
right? I mean this again and this is
just if you the way that that sort of
disenfranchised voters is to like make
things that used to be more convenient
less convenient. So again, price of the
price of gas now if you can afford you
know, an airplane ticket which is
obviously going to be higher uh now
making you in a way in line. So I I you
know, I think we all hope that there is
some resolution.
Um but it does feel a little bit
intractable because of what Democrats
want on the on the ice. Now I think that
politically speaking, if you look at
sort of the breakdown of President
Trump's approval ratings, one issue
where he did consistently pull above
water was on immigration and that has
changed over the last 3 months and you
are already seeing this this pivot away
from some of this more the stronger
rhetoric about deportations to kind of a
softer, gentler immigration approach and
so you could actually I think you could
sort of see the White House trying to
kind of come to a deal on this on
immigration to sort of maybe pivot some
of that that more draconian rhetoric.
>> is crazy that. That was such a
successful campaign promise and it's
become a losing issue. Just like that.
>> There's so many issues
issues that a lot of people agree with
execution that people don't. Libby, good
to see you. Libby Cantrill there of
Pimco. Equity futures this morning
negative 0.5%.
In the commodity market right now, Brent
crude up by close to 6%. We're tracking
this story closely throughout the day
here on Bloomberg TV. Brent 97.32
overnight 101.59.
A brief trip back into triple digits on
WTI up by 5% also. That's how the stage
is set in the commodity market. This is
the story as it plays out in the stock
market. Equity futures down across the
board by 0.5 on the S&P -1 full
percentage point on the Russell. In the
bond market can this bond market afford
another war? The 10-year bond yield
right now is 422. The Yale Budget Lab
executive director said this on the
shrinking appeal of US debt. Here's the
quote. We are currently the boyfriend at
the beginning of the Hallmark movie in
the big city where the girlfriend is
still going out with him even though she
knows it's wrong. This is the idea of
potentially people choosing to buy other
assets in particular gold and that's
something that Jeff Currie was talking
about rather than on the margins putting
it back into US assets. I don't know if
it's the US being an unreliable
boyfriend who then ends up being dumped
by the end. I will say that the war is
not adding to some of the fiscal
concerns given the fact that the US just
in the first 6 days spent more than 11
billion dollars on mainly munitions and
is estimated by a number of different
analysts to be spending about a million
billion dollars a day. So, where is this
going to come from? It doesn't make the
US
a more reliable thing. I love the quote
because it is a guilty pleasure of mine.
He loves a Hallmark movie.
>> a Hallmark movie. I'm seeing that one
five times.
>> when it gets close to Christmas thinking
you love a Hallmark movie.
>> they end up with the boy. So
>> No, they end up with the guy in the farm
town
>> Oh, you're right. When they go home
Christmas. Because she goes to work on a
ranch. Often she works in private equity
and she needs to buy an asset and take
it over from an owner who's had it for
generations and she ends up falling in
love with him. That's how it goes.
>> So, the ending is that
>> her hometown. There
That's the plot for basically every
single movie. Every single Hallmark
movie will never seem the same. You'll
be thinking about US debt instead of
whether the boyfriend is There you go.
Yeah, true. True. So, you'll start
watching them. All right. Now I'm just
thinking how I'm dating all the wrong
people, but yeah. 2 hours away from the
cash open. Let's get you some single
names and morning movers. Danny has
more. Hey, Danny. Hey, John. This
morning looking at Morgan Stanley shares
are down 2% late yesterday writing a
letter to shareholders of their BDC
Northhaven that they're going to be
gating redemptions at 5%.
It's the stress we've seen in private
credit and whether that's the underlying
or not or just sentiment, it means more
people are trying to pull out of these
retail-oriented funds. I spoke with
Goldman Sachs head of credit
last week who said that these gates are
a feature, not a bug and it's designed
for these only semi-liquid or not very
liquid products. Elsewhere on the move
to the upside, the fertilizer companies
are moving higher after having a very
good day yesterday. Mosaic was a best
performer in the S&P yesterday. CF
Industries was the third best after
Oracle yesterday. They move higher again
today 4.6% and 3 and 1/2% because the
Strait of Hormuz isn't just a choke
point for energy, but fertilizer as well
and there've been reports of stockpiling
Turkey and some of their fertilizers
curbing exports. Finally, shares of
Bumble surging this morning up 23 and
1/2%. They had earnings fourth quarter
shows some stabilization, but the thing
that seems to have gotten this market
very excited back to the Hallmark movie
in a different twist of this. It's
unleashing an AI matchmaking agent. It's
going to collect profile data from
people and the AI's going to match
people together and that's the new world
we live in, John.
>> Danny, this is not about looks, it's
about personality. Is that right?
>> Of course. That's all That's always the
case for these apps.
>> Absolutely. That's what it's all about,
without a doubt. Danny, with the latest
there.
Bumble is different than Tinder. I mean,
come on. Let's be honest. If you people
are trying to Look, the thing is the
reputation around each of them. If
someone's trying to find someone, I
think it's like, you know, you put your
your your AI bot on your taxes, you put
your AI bot on your love life. It's, you
know, same same. Robot.
>> I'm a married man. I couldn't tell you
what happens on Tinder. No idea. The
app's never been on the phone.
Thank you for letting us know, John.
>> All right, Mrs. Farrow's watching this
morning. She knows that anyway. And all
right down this morning, crude prices
rising following additional attacks on
the oil tankers off the coast of Iraq.
The latest strikes forcing the nation's
oil terminals to suspend operations,
fueling global supply concerns.
Elsewhere, the White House pledging to
release 172 million barrels of crude in
an effort to combat costs.
The releases is certainly out of the US
strategic petroleum reserve, but they'll
go over about 4 months. Uh but this
conflict I don't think goes that long. I
think we will have the Straits of Hormuz
open well before then. Hopefully in the
next few weeks we will see ship traffic
returning We don't see much of that
right now. The release is part of the
IEA effort to discharge a total of 400
million barrels from reserves. And
finally, the president confident the
injection will ease pricing and vows to
keep the pressure on Iran until the job
is done.
Oil prices are already coming back down
and it's going to come down, but we
we're not leaving until that job is
finished and it's going to be very fast.
AS WE END this threat to America and
this threat to the world, we don't want
to leave early, do we? Huh?
WE GOT TO FINISH THE JOB, RIGHT? The IEA
saying the conflict is quote creating
the largest supply disruption in the
history of the global oil market.
>> with about 7 and 1/2% of global supply.
And a real question is how long is it
going to take to bring some of the
supply back online. Look, there has been
a question of when President Trump would
capitulate or taco. Trump always
chickens out. That's sort of the the
notes in the tenor of the notes that we
keep getting. And decide, okay, I can
declare victory. Given the rhetoric
coming from Iran and given sort of all
guns a blazing literally into the
streets of Hormuz. The attacks in Iraqi
water space on some of the ships there
gives a sense they want to make this
worse before it gets better better,
which is the why the show notes tone is
shifting back to who is it that can say
this is truly over.
>> It's cuz the regime knows what the
threshold is for this administration and
it's $100 a barrel when it comes to oil.
But, it was interesting yesterday the
president changed his tune slightly from
the morning to the evening. In the
morning it was it's practically nothing
left to target in Iran thinking that
potentially where his head is was
there's going to be a wind down to the
evening saying basically, well, we're
not going to leave until the job is
done. So, basically telling Americans
hang with me a little bit longer
elevated prices because the job is not
done yet.
>> Triple digits overnight Brent at the
moment 96 86 global bonds erasing
year-to-date gains as elevated energy
prices and slowing growth raises
stagflation fears. Stephen Mater of
Tradition Dubai writing the following,
"The spectre of stagflation is no longer
just a ghost story from the 1970s. It is
rapidly becoming the primary concern for
global bond markets." Steve joins us now
for more. Steve, welcome back. Tense
time where you are. So, thanks for
making time for us this morning. What
does that scenario mean potentially for
treasuries?
Well, I I don't like using the word
stagflation, John, and in fact I do it
reluctantly. But, it's just that markets
have to price in the scenarios in the
same way that central banks are dealing
with scenarios. And if we had this call
a few weeks ago, I think we spoke
actually in January, the oil price was
heading down. There was a supply glut
and people were talking 60 50 for oil,
right? So, here we are with a very
different situation. There's there's a
block in the flow of oil and you can see
it's going to take some time to to ease
that block. The The The stagflation
scenario, I think has to be taken very
carefully because things are different
in many ways. The US is a big oil
producer. There's there's a much older
population now than back then. There's
more wealth inequality.
Uh you you've got the technology
backdrop as well, which is very
different. So, I I I look at it and I
think we can we can use the 1970s to
some extent, but it does feel to me like
the market is pricing in now a lot of
that stagflation risk. And and what I've
been doing is looking at where I think
it's in the price and where it isn't. Um
it's interesting to look at inflation
break-evens, for example, to look at the
different credit sectors, to look at
global bonds. But but I don't the market
wants to price in that stagflation
scenario. And and and let's just say it
looks like a 40-50% probability waiting
today, whereas it may have been less
than 10% at the start of this year.
>> Steve, in many ways you're in the fog of
war. And I wonder when you speak to
people in different places, old
colleagues in London, in Asia, in the
United States, are you sensing a
different perspective over what is
happening?
Yeah, look, this reminds me of COVID to
some extent. I think I may have spoken
to you from quarantine. So, the the
context is a bit different this time, at
least I'm free to move around. Uh but it
feels a bit surreal. We're waiting on
the news flow, and you've got different
contexts in that, you have families will
look at this differently to people like
myself who I'm not here on my own. So,
so we can't judge what people are doing
cuz everyone everyone's different. Uh
so, it strikes me that that this is
creating a bit of a growth shock, not
just here in the region, but but
globally. So, we're going to have to
downgrade growth forecasts everywhere.
The question is whether we we we get
tipped into recession or even uh dare I
say it again, that stagflation scenario
keeps coming through. But but talking to
colleagues, I I think that that the
comparison with COVID keeps coming back.
Um one of the big differences, John, is
that we have a decent real yield these
days. Don't forget in 2021-22,
we had US real yields minus 100, minus
300 in the UK. Now we've got, you know,
pushing towards plus 200 in the US.
That's quite a juicy real yield. Uh so,
things are very different in that
in that sense at least. Are people
pricing in bigger fiscal deficits?
You're talking about a real yield and
sort of the premium. Is that coming from
increased deficit spending certainly in
Europe, but just as much if not more so
in the US?
I think you're you're right, Lisa. Some
of the risk premium is fiscal because
because fiscal is not improving. And it
It seems that fiscal policy is going to
be used more maybe to try and
offset the oil price increase, for
example, right? And that could happen
globally because that's a typical
emerging markets playbook actually to
use fiscal to control prices.
Uh so, so I think that some of the risk
premium is that. But but don't forget,
you know, a few weeks ago we we would
have been talking about AI. Part of the
real yield uh elevation is maybe
productivity as well. Uh the the the
thing that matters to me is that the
real yield is high enough now to be
covering what we think the longer run
equilibrium policy rate probably is. And
and that's what matters, right? For an
investor
entering into into real yields close to
two,
uh that that seems like a great
opportunity. And I think that the people
were going to be buying tips here
because they like the real yield and
they're they're thinking that maybe the
inflation expectation could rise.
Given the
the tail risks here, which have gotten
wider and wider, I'm just wondering how
big the range of your potential
projections for longer term yields could
be. Has it gotten a lot wider? Have you
actually narrowed it down to actually
being above a certain level as being
most probable?
Look, that's
it's quite impressive how tight that
range is. Because because um
I think that we've been in very narrow
ranges, right? We we we had a brief dip
below 4% this year, and I think that the
way things were set up before this
conflict, we were heading to three and a
half.
I I think that if you look through the
immediate noise, you're still going to
have lower rates and and yields in my
mind should be below four. I think a
three handle is much more natural for
the US 10-year Treasury given the
outlook for rates. But look, what's
going on at the moment means that
there's going to be a a pause. No
central bank is going to rush to do
anything here apart from update their
scenarios. That's all that's going to
happen. There'll be no rate action.
There won't there won't be any hikes.
The question is when we can get back
onto the easing path. Stephen, given the
fact that you're actually in the region,
when you talk about a spectrum of
stagflation, have you had it difficult
to convince other individuals, your
peers that are around the world?
Yeah, I I think that stagflation gets a
bad rap and
I've not been a big fan of it it as a
scenario. I think it's it's quite lazy
that people reach for comparisons with
the 1970s when it's so different, but
there there's something in this now, I
think, that that that we you know, the
the definition of stagflation requires
there to be a recession, rising
unemployment, and inflation that's
that's going up.
We're not there yet because the US
numbers are still quite resilient. So so
there may be some sort of form of
stagflation light coming in into the
valuations. But I'm I'm surprised that
you haven't seen more rotations in the
credit market, more kind of sec-
sectoral shifts into safety, more moves
in uh
up in up in quality, for example, or
into those sectors that are more safe,
like non-cyclical type of things.
Um I'm I'm quite surprised about that
and and also, of course, the equity
market has has held up pretty well as
well. It It It could be quite dangerous
to be seeing this as a buy the dip in
all the risk assets. And I And I know
that that's something that the markets
have become conditioned to do because
they've been rewarded every time in the
past, but this could take some time to
work through.
>> Well, Steve, let's just talk about
what's happening in fixed income at the
moment. This week, we had one of the
biggest days of supply, in fact, the
biggest day of investment grade credit
supply in America that we've ever seen.
We had a massive issue come from a
single issuer, Amazon. But also, when
you look at spreads, IG spreads are
tight, high yield spreads are tight,
even with some problems emerging in
private markets, you're not seeing that
contagion into the rest of safe fixed
income, Steve. How are you weighing the
risk that it might change elsewhere,
too?
Uh I think it's really impressive that
these jumbo jumbo deals get done. I
mean, even thinking about the UK gilt,
for example. And again, the demand for
these bonds is just huge. So, it seems
to me that the the safer sovereign bonds
are doing just fine. That the top
quality corporates are going to do just
fine. I mean, people like those
household names. And and so, they're
going to buy Amazon and then anything
like it. The the private credit side is
is really interesting because that would
have been the dominant story this week.
Maybe it still is. And and there are
echoes here of 2007. And and I I I think
that, you're in the in the um discussion
and before before I came on air, I think
you were talking about some film or you
call it movie over there, don't you? But
you were talking about the um the uh
unreliable boyfriend being in private
equity. Well, actually, maybe he should
be in private credit. Because because
that that seems to me to be the focus
right now in the in the that could spill
into public credit markets. And if if
that happens, then you're going to see
bonds in the government sector get bid,
and bonds will start performing better
than swaps and better than credit.
You'll remember from your days in
London, we used to call Mark Carney the
unreliable boyfriend. Remember that,
Steve? That's been a long time. Steve,
it's good to see you. Stay safe, buddy,
and thanks for making time for us. Steve
Major there of Tradition Dubai on fixed
income. 10-year Treasuries, the low of
the year, 3.92, came at the very start
of this month. Yeah, and just how far we
have come given the fact that we've
risen what almost 30 basis points in
that time. And it's come on this idea
that we're going to get an inflationary
shock from oil that could cause central
banks to remain on hold or hike rates,
which will slow growth in the long term,
which raises a question. Why are people
pricing in inflation over the long term
and when will they start bidding
treasuries back? And as Steve Major was
saying, it's not until they feel the
fear that will be expressed in in risk
markets that right now are anything but
fearful.
>> Steve said what you said, that if we
weren't talking about the Middle East,
we'd be talking about private credit. I
agree with you both. I think there's a
liquidity issue here, which is very
clear. They don't want to sell assets to
meet redemptions at the pace that
they're getting them. There's clear fear
in retail investors, which has been a
driver of the expansion. And on the flip
side, we're potentially going to see
credit issues coming from the higher oil
prices.
>> The Federal Reserve stuck between a rock
and a hard place. Up next on the
program, balancing the dual mandate.
Both on goods and energy, we have a
problem. Futures markets are pricing in
the idea that some sort of settlement
will occur before the end of the year. I
think the Federal Reserve should just
stay on hold here.
All the problems the economy is facing
have got nothing to do with the level of
interest rates. Up next, we'll catch up
with Sonali
at Franklin Templeton. Live from New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Brent crude just short of 98 at the
moment, 97.60 and up by 6% on the
session so far. The highs overnight up
by 10. WTI
5.6% higher, 92.20 on WTI crude this
morning. Equity futures off the back of
that. Bit snoozy on the S&P 500,
negative by 0.4% on the Nasdaq, down by
0.4. The pain, if you can call it that,
on the Russell of small caps down by 1.4
percentage point. And if you check out
the bond market, you wouldn't know
anything was going on. Yields are just
about lower by basis point through the
curve. We're down on 10s to 421 and on
2s to 364. Macro paralysis right now.
How do you respond to a stagflationary
shock that may or may not be
long-lasting? And right now, the
market's saying we're not going to put a
lot of conviction behind this one. Fed
meeting a week away. The Federal Reserve
getting together next Wednesday. And as
Savannah said this morning, balancing
the dual mandate.
Both on goods and energy, we have a
problem. Futures markets are pricing in
the idea that some sort of settlement
will occur before the end of the year.
We've got a problem though on goods
because we still have tariffs, and I
think those you're going to see the
feed-through effects of tariffs
affecting inflation. I think the Federal
Reserve should just stay on hold here.
The all the problems that the economy is
facing have got nothing to do with the
level of interest rates. So, here's the
latest this morning. Energy price shocks
adding to inflation fears ahead of the
Federal Reserve's decision next week.
Sonu Desai Franklin Templeton writing
higher oil prices are likely to lift
inflation expectations quickly,
prompting markets to price in a less
dovish stance from the Federal Reserve.
Sonu, join us there for more. Sonu,
we're seeing that, and not just at the
Fed, we're seeing at the ECB, at the
Bank of England. That's the front end of
the curve. That's that story. Further
out, when you look at something like a
10-year maturity, is this shock bullish
or bearish, positive or negative for
bonds?
It's bearish. I think it's bearish for
bonds because
we keep hearing about the potential stag
part of stagflation.
I actually am a little bit less
concerned about that if I'm talking
about the US. Your the euro area is a
little bit different. But we're looking
at the US, just to put a little bit put
things a little bit in perspective here,
John. So far, as you noted, we've got
that we've got Brent at around 97.
Uh the average price of Brent in 2022
was 100. And I would note that we came
into 2022 with inflation already at 7
and 1/2% in January. And inflation rose
definitely. And it went up to something
like 9.5% but I'm just trying to put
things a little bit in perspective here
because we didn't get a recession out of
all of that. And I think we shouldn't
while we shouldn't underestimate the
gravity of everything we're seeing, I
think it's premature perhaps to
overestimate it. So to some extent I
actually think the market's getting it
right here. Well, that sort of explains
why we haven't seen any kind of fear
expressed in credit markets. In fact,
they seem to be wide open and I'm
putting private credit aside. I'm
talking about public credit markets. Do
you think that that is poised to change
if the long end of the yield curve
continues to sell off and oil prices
remain high or do you think that the
market's getting it right and this will
be temporary?
So that's pretty much calling the end of
the end of the conflict, the war and
that's fairly hard to do. I think
currently at markets the best estimates
markets are making is roughly around
most people assume 6 weeks, maybe a
couple of months. And I think for that
we can actually overcome this and I do
think there's an extent to which if
we're looking at public markets, they're
looking at the underlying fundamentals
and I don't think very much in the
underlying fundamentals has changed via
what's happening
in the Middle East. Enormously
disruptive as it is, the underlying
fundamentals actually haven't
dramatically changed over the last 13
days. So now are you concerned that some
of what we're hearing in private credit
markets, the idea of redemptions and
gates and all sorts of other headlines
that keep crossing every single day will
start to infect appetite in public
markets?
You know, this is a difficult one
because fundamentally when I look at
private credit, the fact that it is
illiquid is pretty much written on the
can. It's supposed to be illiquid. That
is that asset class. And in that asset
class if you do get a lot of redemptions
in one go, you are going to get
liquidity issues. Do those translate
immediately into insolvency issues?
I'm less sure because these products are
designed to be
by their nature somewhat illiquid. The
fact that they cannot meet redemptions
on demand
largely is also baked into the can baked
into the cake because they're not really
supposed to It doesn't give you that
much of information on the underlying
asset quality. I think the real problem
is, again, somewhat by nature, this is a
fairly
fairly non-transparent asset class. You
can't know everything which is in there,
and you can't know the price of
everything which is there because it
doesn't trade. So, I I look at this, and
yes, I'm concerned, but I don't think
we're at the stage of saying that all
private credit is catastrophic because,
quite honestly, we don't know. So, now,
it's good to see you, as always. Sonali
Desai there at Franklin Templeton on
fixed income. Some headlines crossed on
the Bloomberg terminal just moments ago.
Comes from the energy secretary, Chris
Rice, speaking to American media a
little bit earlier on this morning,
reiterating that the operations in Iran
will take weeks and not months. Going on
to say this about escorts through the
Strait of Hormuz, the navy escort will
happen relatively soon. It can't happen
now. The tanker escort is likely by the
end of the month. The guidance coming
from the energy secretary for whatever
that guidance is worth this morning.
>> That's actually really significant,
giving a timeline for when they could
try to get that traffic going again. How
much money goes behind that? And this,
of course, comes after what we saw
earlier with the tweet that that was
retracted. So, clearly, this has been in
the works. It's just that they're laying
the groundwork for it, and it just can't
happen just yet.
>> highly dependent on the operation and
how long the operation goes on for, and
whether you believe it's going to take
weeks and not months.
>> And also, what does this actually look
like? It's not going to be all the
tankers all at once. This is a very
narrow strait and it's going to be
single tanker at a time. It's going to
be very slow. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Olsen Quan of Wells
Fargo, Jared Cassidy of RBC, Neda
Richardson of ADP, and Oksana Aronov of
JP Morgan. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
There's a systematic upward bias in
equity markets. The market is trying to
look through the valley here. If it's a
one-month shock, the market has to price
in the risk that it might be two months.
>> There's just been absolute violence in
terms of the rotation.
>> Be watchful rather than making massive
structural changes. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoardern.
The open about about 19 minutes away.
The data about 30 away. Jobless claims
at 8:30 Eastern time. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. The second hour, the third hour
rather, of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now with equity futures on the S&P
negative by about 0.5%. Likewise on the
Nasdaq, on the Russell the small caps
underperform throughout this morning.
We're down by one full percentage point
there. In the commodity market it's
setting the tone for things triple
digits overnight on Brent 98. We're
climbing again this morning by 6.6% on
Brent crude. The energy secretary Chris
Wright speaking just moments ago,
speaking to the American press and
saying that ultimately this operation
will take weeks and not months. His
call, up to you as to whether you
believe that or not. And the navy escort
they've talked a lot about will not
happen right now but will happen
relatively soon and could happen likely
by the end of the month.
>> There are 100 ships that before this
conflict were going through the Strait
of Hormuz every single day. So, to
escort even a small proportion of that
requires a significant amount of
manpower and requires a huge amount of
logistics. So, that could be potentially
a lever to offset some of the lack of
flow. The bottom line is though, until
there is a resolution to this conflict,
people are all caught up in the fog of
war unknowing the duration as well as
the ramifications from an economic
impact.
>> And that's the reason why people might
seem complacent, but the conversations
that we're having are anything but.
>> And it's the reason why oil prices are
going up even after the IEA came out and
said we're going to have this 400
million barrel a day drop, even after
the president and the DOE came out and
said we're tapping the SPR. Yesterday he
talked about flows when it came to Jeff
Currie in that conversation. And right
now there's a mismatch if the Strait of
Hormuz effectively remains shut. Look at
the situation right now. This is not
just Israel, Iran, and the United
States. It's other Gulf nations that
have been pulled into this as well. Our
colleagues are working from home today
in Dubai. We've seen banks like Citi,
Goldman, Standard Chartered tell their
staff to do exactly the same because
this war zone is not just in Iran. Iran
is springing everybody else into this
mess, which is putting huge amounts of
pressure on supply chains in the region.
Asia is the first one to suffer by a
lot. They've got a decent cushion to
deal with things, sure, but you're
seeing it not just in oil, but oil
product, and the pressure keeps
building, which is why we've now got
Brent back to about 98. But, I don't
Brent's the story actually this morning
at the front end of the curve. I think
the story is further out along the
curve. The fact that December futures
are now talking about potentially 80,
the high 70s, and you've got real
analysts in this oil market, Goldman
coming out and saying, "If this lasts an
extra month, let's say it goes 60 days,
then we're talking about averaging in
the 90s in the fourth quarter." That's
not where the equity market is,
but will it be there in a few days'
time? Especially if you start to see
moves from the central bank or lack
thereof in terms of how they can
potentially respond and if Iran
continues to ramp up some of their
attacks.
If oil prices remain at that level, it's
not just oil. And I think we have to
keep coming back to this. 40 to 50% of
urea, which is a key ingredient
fertilizer, goes through the Strait of
Hormuz. There are other shipping
containers also that have been unable to
go through that port. So, it's not just
supply chains for oil. It's supply
chains for food. It's supply chains for
all sorts of other materials and
supplies. This is the reason why and the
market's not coming around to this yet,
but it could potentially be a real
shock.
>> already seeing the knock-on effects.
Look at what Willie Walsh is talking
about. 8 to 9% is the jump that you can
likely expect when it comes to airline
fees. And we're what? Only 13 13 days
into this. Jet fuel is going higher.
Diesel is going higher. All of this is
trickling down to the products.
>> Brent crude right now, 98. Coming up
this hour, Austin Quan of Wells Fargo
with stocks heading for a third straight
day of losses. Joe Cassidy of RBC
Capital Markets. The stress is building
in the private credit market. And Nela
Richardson of ADP breaking down the
latest jobs data. We begin this hour
with stocks lower and crude rising as
the historic release of oil reserves is
failing to outweigh tensions in the
Middle East. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendal
has more for us this morning. Morning,
Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well,
disruptions are continuing in the Strait
of Hormuz as the International Energy
Agency came out with a report this
morning saying that the current
disruption to global oil supplies is the
worst in history. As you mentioned, we
heard from the US Energy Secretary
moments ago suggesting the US could soon
escort tankers through the straits with
the Navy, but isn't quite ready to do so
yet. This as the administration is set
to release 172 million barrels of oil
from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve,
which US officials say will take about 4
months to fully deliver. The conflict is
showing no signs of abating as President
Trump yesterday re-suggested that the
conflict could still end, but maintained
that he is prepared to sustain the
military operation for as long as it
takes and Israel confirmed earlier today
that they have started a new wave of
large-scale attacks including targeting
one Iranian nuclear facility. Plus on
Iran's end we're starting to see more
escalation around the region including
hitting energy and security
infrastructure as reports that two Iraqi
crude tankers were hit in a in a in an
attack overnight. Now John there is
reporting that through regional
intermediaries according to people
familiar telling Bloomberg News that
Iran has outlined some key conditions
they would need to be met for a
ceasefire including that the US and
Israel would pledge to never attack the
country in the future in the future. At
this point it just feels like both sides
are very far apart.
>> Sonal Khanda with the latest in
Washington. Sonal thank you stay close.
Here's the view on Wall Street. Arsalan
Qanitafagah writing it's a US war the US
arguably has more control. De-escalation
is bullish but upside might be capped at
7K amid AI and private credit fears.
Arsalan joins us now for more. Arsalan
good morning to you. Morning. Let's
start with the December Brent contract
is trading around 80. Is this getting
harder to ignore or can you continue to
look through this? Yeah no I think I
think you're right. I think it really
depends on the duration of this. Is it
weeks? Is it months? If it's weeks and
we're back to like 70-ish Brent crude
then I think we're sort of back to
normal-ish macro cycle and I think the
underlying macro cycle was pretty
healthy
before this happened right? I mean we
were talking about the manufacturing up
cycle for the first time in three three
years. We were in a restocking cycle.
The consumer was about to get a lot of
cash from the tax return too which is
happening right now. So I I think the
underlying macro cycle is still pretty
healthy. There are some bull cases too.
Everyone's talking about bear cases but
there are some bull cases from the macro
cycle. A everyone is hedged. There has
been a lot of hedging activity
happening, so the downside protection is
there.
Um number two, liquidity cycle is in an
up cycle. So,
in terms of the domestic liquidity,
we're we're back at January highs, and I
think that's what's really making uh US
equities more resilient versus other
asset classes.
>> spend some time in the macro backdrop.
I'm with you. The ISM's have been pretty
decent. Park labor market, everything
else has been pretty promising,
particularly the fact we get these
refunds, and there's a lot of capex
behind us as well.
But before we get to all of that, when
this first started, people were coming
on and saying, "If it's days and not
weeks, it'll be okay." And now we hear,
"If it's weeks and not months, it'll be
okay." It's 13 days. Where on the
calendar does it get real for you?
Where's there a tipping point? Yeah, I
mean, the administration
last week came out and said that, you
know, it's going to take about 4 weeks.
So, if it's really 4 weeks, then I think
the market sort of pricing in 4
weeks-ish time frame. Um
yeah, I mean, I think and and a lot of
people are starting to talk about the
the analog of 2022. Um and I think the
the macro cycle is very different versus
2022. First of all, we were coming out
of the easiest monetary policy in in
2022. Um the oil market was had 2 years
of deficits in 2020 and 2021, uh whereas
2025 was a massive surplus. So, if this
is really like a 4-week event, then I
think we're going back to a more
normal-ish environment, and I think
equities are going to be fine. Uh but at
the same time, if if it if this drags on
for months, then we're talking about a
very different story. You said that the
worst-case scenario now is about 6,000
on the S&P. What are you pricing in? I
mean, what's kind of worst-case scenario
to get to that level? If oil stays at
around $100, uh and people are start
talking about more of a stackflation
narrative, then I think, yeah, the
worst-case scenarios can be at last
6,000. Uh the level that we're watching
is 6350 on the S&P 500. That's the VWAP
of this bull bull market so far. So,
basically below that level, on average,
people are going to be under under the
water in this equity market. And I think
below that we could potentially see more
policy put, which could
potentially provide more support to the
equity market. One concern, you
mentioned liquidity. Some of that
liquidity is getting diverted to
compensate for higher oil prices. There
also is one aspect of liquidity which
has been shared buybacks from a lot of
the tech giants. That's increasingly
going to building out data centers and
investing in their AI build-out. Where
is additional liquidity going to come
from if the fiscal spaces are really
kind of focused on supporting defense,
supporting oil prices, and the monetary
space is in paralysis? Yeah, that's a
real concern, right? This
Iran war really, you know, kind of threw
cold water on that liquidity cycle. And
it it is getting better. I think that's
the support that's
providing for the equity market. Uh,
that being said, if this drags longer,
obviously that's going to be bad. Um,
one area that we're starting to like is
the hyperscalers. I think the pain trade
actually is the Nasdaq higher. Uh,
because positioning is not there. Um,
everyone hated the Nasdaq, including
ourselves, for the past few months.
Uh, and and hyper we were actually
outright bearish hyperscalers for a few
months.
Um,
it's been a funding short of the market.
Uh, and if you if you think about last
week, there was a real pain trade that
happened last week because
the macro favorite longs were Cosby,
Nikkei, and gold. And all three saw some
volatility. And the funding short was
really the dollar and the S&P,
especially the hyperscalers, right? And
I think so, first of all, positioning is
not there. Second,
um, fundamentals actually might be
inflating higher. The reason why
everyone, including ourselves, were were
bearish on hyperscalers was because of
their free cash flow weakening. And we
actually think that at least the CapEx,
the second derivative of CapEx revision,
is probably slowing.
Um
I think everyone's underestimating the
revenue upside. And if AI is really that
good, hyperscalers are probably not
over-investing. And I think free cash
flow might actually be inflecting
higher. If that's the case, I think
hyperscalers are all of a sudden looking
a lot more attractive.
>> the main input costs to hyperscalers is
energy, and that's going up.
>> Yeah.
Doesn't that concern you? Yeah, I mean
if you
if you think about their overall CapEx
and the energy portion of that is
actually tiny. It's really still GPUs
and, you know, memory and things like
that. So, yeah, it's it's a headwind,
but these companies have so much cash on
the balance sheet. Uh and and they're
also issuing that to raise
to to fund fund the CapEx as well. And
if the revenue growth is there, and
everyone's still saying that demand
still outpaces supply.
Uh and if AI is really that good, then
we're just going to have need more
compute power. Uh so, if that's the
case, I think all and also, all of a
sudden
with Iran
hyperscalers and AI trade is now looking
like a quality trade again, because
they're they are more insulated from
what's happening geopolitically. Uh so,
I think there will be more flows into
those companies. Auslin always good to
see you. Appreciate the constructive
outlook as well. Auslin Kwan of Wells
Fargo. Coming into this, there were
reasons to be bullish. We talked about
it so many different times. The tax
refunds will get the CapEx for the big
tech players, the cuts to monetary
policy, the rate cuts we've seen over
the last 12 months, plus all of that
building towards a cyclical rebound,
undermining some of that is what could
happen here in the Middle East. We're
tracking that story for you. Just
getting this headline from Tasnim. This
is, of course, the semi-official news
agency out of Iran. They broadcast it
there that the new supreme leader will
issue a first statement, and that
statement could come any moment now.
>> This is the former Ayatollah's son.
There's been many speculation about
where exactly is he. There was a report
yesterday that he's injured but still
alive. And this is what the regime has
been waiting for and also individuals in
the Gulf just questioning when are we
going to hear from him? We will get a
statement. Very interesting what he's
going to say especially given we have a
prescription yesterday from the Iranian
president on what it would take in terms
of the US and Israel doing in order for
them to come to the negotiation
>> As those headlines cross, equity futures
negative by about 0.6%. Brent crude out
to about 98.30. WTI 93.20. When that
statement crosses and we get those
headlines, we'll bring them to you. But
finding out where Iran is on this. We've
often talked about this. When we talk
about the US, we know who we're talking
about, the president of the United
States. When we're talking about Israel,
we know who we're talking about,
Netanyahu. We know who has the controls
there, who's leading this effort. When
we're talking about Iran, things have
been very, very confusing because we had
conflicting messages coming out over the
weekend from the Iranian president and
then what the Iranian forces were
actually doing.
>> Yeah, this is the difficulty right now.
On one hand you can say that a lot of
the potential leaders and the current
leaders were eliminated as the military
would say. On the other hand yesterday
there was a report that the US was
discussing that found that actually much
of the IRGC leadership really was in
place and continuing to harden their
line and you're seeing attacks only
escalate in the region. The fact that
the new supreme leader's going to put
out a statement could could simply
galvanize some of that spirit behind
what we've already seen.
>> We're on standby for that statement.
When we get the headlines, we'll bring
them to you. Up next, we'll bring you
some morning calls as well. Plus Jared
Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets as stress
is building in private credit and what
it means for the likes of Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs because those stocks
have started to trade a little bit
softer over the past few weeks. That's
next from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> The private credit side is is really
interesting because that would have been
the dominant story this week. Maybe it
still is and and there are echoes here
of 2007. That could spill into public
credit markets. And if that happens,
then you're going to see bonds in the
government sector get bid and bonds will
start performing better than swaps and
better than credit. We'll come back to
that story in a moment. Steve Major
there of Tradition Dubai. The story of
the moment in the equity market negative
by about 6/10 of 1% on the Russell.
We're down by 1.3. In the commodity
market, crude new highs overnight. New
highs I say relative to where we have
been the last couple of days. The high
of course of the week 119.50 on Brent.
The high overnight north of 100 again in
triple digits. 98.64.
Got a statement from the
state-affiliated
broadcaster in Iran saying that we could
get a statement for the supreme leader,
the new supreme leader, any moment from
now. So, we're on standby for that with
crude elevated up by more than 7%. So,
we're waiting for this statement. We
have not heard from the new supreme
leader. His father was killed in a
strike, the former Ayatollah, and
there's been all the speculation. Is
this individual even alive? Yesterday
there was a report that he was injured.
So, this is going to set the tone
potentially for the direction and how
long Iran is willing to continue
fighting this war. When we get that
statement and those headlines, we'll
bring them to you of course. Let's get
you some money calls. First up,
Jefferies lowers its price target on
Delta noting the steep rise in jet fuel
prices. Your second call, Wells Fargo,
double upgrading Occidental to
overweight believing the energy giant
can resume an accelerated growth trend
in 2027. And finally, Piper Sandler of
its price target on Exxon to 186. The
Ambers revising estimates on the back,
guess what? High crude. That stock is up
by 3/4 of 1%. Let's turn to the
financials with Morgan Stanley and Cliff
Water limiting redemptions from
multi-billion dollar private credit
funds. This coming as the firms grapple
with waves of withdrawal requests.
Herman Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence
joins us now for more. Herman, we've
seen one after the other and maybe
there's more to come. That's right.
There's a lot of questions on private
credit and the interconnectedness
with the banks. And that's really what's
driving
share price performance over the past
few weeks and months is that there's
still a lot of questions on what's going
to happen within the private credit
complex and questions on how banks will
be affected given their exposures to
these non-bank financial institutions.
Herman, we've seen some of these names,
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, deliver
fantastic earnings in Q4. And the stocks
were really outperforming within the
financials. They've just started to
trade a little bit softer more recently,
Herman. Why are they getting caught up
in this in a bigger way? Yeah, I I think
what you can point to is that the
increased volatility is the enemy for
lots of businesses like IPOs and M&A.
So, getting into the year, there was
lots of enthusiasm that that investment
banking activity would ratchet up higher
this year given the fact that we have a
a big backlog in IPOs and also increased
M&A activity given the deregulation
efforts of the Trump administration. And
also potential return of areas like
private equity putting their portfolio
companies into the public markets. Given
the volatility we see today, a lot of
that's on pause in our view. Herman,
good to see you. Herman Chan there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. To build on
this, Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital
Markets. Gerard, thank you for joining
us, sir. Do we have a problem here?
John, yes, there will be some issues, no
doubt about it. And the private credit
problems are likely to continue because
of what's going on in the marketplace.
But the real question then is, you know,
what's the impact of the banks? The
banks have some exposure to some of the
private credit players, but this is
nothing like what we saw back in 2008
and 2009 for the banks. The other thing,
Duchin, we got to remember when you look
at the total private credit markets,
it's about a 1.7 trillion globally. And
when you think of what happened to the
price of crypto in the last what, six to
nine months, it's lost over a trillion
dollars of value and nobody batted an
eye. So, it's a it's going to be an
issue, no doubt about it, but we don't
see it as a systemic issue like the
subprime crisis was. Is there a bank,
Gerard, that you think or a class of
banks, whether it's small, whether it's
medium, whether it's among the largest,
that you think is most exposed not just
to the private credit story and to form
of credit lines and direct lending
themselves, but in the form of sister
asset classes, whether it's software
assets, whether it's similar types of
lending that might come under pressure
in response in sympathy to what we're
seeing in private credit?
Lisa, it's an interesting question
because that's what we're all looking
for, of course, is there any second
derivatives from a private credit
disruption or meltdown, whatever you
like to call it. And right now,
specifically on software, the the
exposure to software companies from a
loan portfolio for all the major banks
is very minimal. So, it's it's not
something
that we're too worried about. Could
there be
any idiosyncratic pop-ups of credit
losses? No doubt about it. But you're
asking a good question because it's the
loans to non-depository financial
institutions where some of these loans
lie and the transparency is not very
clear. It's getting better.
I think you're going to see better
transparency in the first quarter
earnings calls, but the banks will tell
you that the structures that they're
lending into are very senior AAA
tranches. So, we're not too concerned of
any material losses for the big banks.
And again, they're just they've been so
de-risked since the financial crisis
that they'll be able to weather any
storm that comes from private credit in
our view. We did see those some concerns
after Silicon Valley, particularly with
regional banks about some of their
lending portfolios. Putting aside just
private credit and specifically
liquidity concerns, with an oil price
shock, there is the fear that liquidity
concerns could be paired with real
credit concerns if the economy were to
deteriorate. Do you have a sense of
whether there are pockets of potential
pain within the banking system that
would emerge in that type of scenario?
It's it's interesting because the
Silicon Valley failures, First Republic
and Signature, was so unique. You might
recall, Lisa, these companies relied on
the uninsured deposits source of
funding, and that's what put them out of
business, the liquidity problem back in
2023. They were unique. No bank is set
up that way. So, from a liquidity
standpoint, even if price of oil stays
over $100 a barrel for an extended
period of time, we're not that concerned
about a liquidity crisis. However, you
do touch on something else, which is
credit. So, if somebody's forecasting
$100 oil for 6 to 12 months, that's
likely to lead to some credit issues,
particularly at the consumer level. But,
you would have to have real confidence
that that was going to happen. We don't
believe that's going to happen. We don't
know, though, for sure. But, I think if
uh you look at the current state of
affairs, we just finished our 30th
annual financial institutions conference
yesterday. Every bank that presented,
first quarter results are going to be
good. Everything is on track, so we'll
see how this plays out.
>> You still think the banks are a buy,
Jared?
Yeah, yes. In fact, John, I think this
is very You know what? It's interesting,
John. This reminds me of Liberation Day.
You remember last April and this bank
stocks got hit real hard and it we've
assuming of course this Middle East
crisis does not extend out for another 9
or 12 months, but if they if we clean
this up or
or dials back in the next four weeks,
yes, it they're definitely a buy. That
would be John Cassidy there of RBC
Capital Markets. The week of liberation
week bank stocks were down something
like 14% then it bounced back and
rallied aggressively from there as did
everything else, but is this really the
same as what we saw last year? I kept
thinking in my head conditioned by
experience. This is a market conditioned
to not miss out. This is a FOMO driven
market not exactly one driven by fear
and it's the reason why maybe you're not
seeing the scope of the sell-off that
you saw in the wake of liberation day
because there was a policy response
which is the reason why we keep going
back to is there a clean policy response
to this in the same way as in April and
increasingly the answer is a resounding
not at all.
>> In April there was only one party waging
war. There was no retaliation. It was
all in the president's hand. This time
around very different.
>> it best yesterday. It was a lever Trump
can pull up and down. He cannot do this
here as much as they want to. They
cannot even at this moment escort a
tanker to the Strait of Hormuz which is
the choke point right now. So no and
everyone that's bullish has an asterisk.
Well, it depends how long this lasts.
Weeks. We hope it's weeks now and not
months. Things are changing slowly.
Coming up on the program the latest jobs
data claims set to report in just about
four minutes time. We'll get Neda
Richardson of ABP with us in just a
moment.
Tracking a few things this morning. A
state affiliated news agency out of Iran
suggesting we could get a statement any
moment now from the new supreme leader.
So we're standing by for that. In the
equity market going to get some jobless
claims data. Equity futures are negative
by about 0.6% down by 1.3 on the
Russell, in the commodity market, 119.50
the high of the week so far. That was
Sunday evening. Overnight triple digits
once again, and Brent crude not too far
away at the moment, 98.60
and up by more than 7%. We'll get into
that in just a moment. Let's talk about
the economic backdrop. The jobs market,
Mike McKee as well. Morning, Mike. Good
morning, John. Well, the low fire
economy continues. We're at 213,000 for
initial jobless claims last week. That's
down from a revised 214,000
the week before, and it's just about
where we expected to be. So, it doesn't
suggest that companies are giving up on
their employees yet. Continuing claims
1,850,000.
That's down from 1,871
the week before. Other numbers out, a
smaller-than-expected trade deficit for
the month of January, negative 54.5
billion dollars. That's down from
negative 72.9 in the month of December.
Imports were down by 7/10 of 8%. Exports
up by 5 and 1/2% suggesting there is
some tariff effect at work there.
Housing starts are out, and they are up
7.2%
in the month of January. A big surprise,
the anticipation was for a decline of 4
and 1/2%. Bad weather, of course, one of
the major culprits. Uh building permits
were down 5.4%.
Uh
the expectation was for negative 3.1%.
So, more pessimism on the uh side of
builders, but not as much uh of a
weather impact as uh people thought. So,
uh some overall really pretty good news
for the economy given where we are at
the moment.
>> We'll take that, Mike McKee, without a
doubt, particularly following that
dreadful payrolls report just last week.
Michael McKee there breaking down
jobless claims coming in at 213,
213,000.
The estimate was 215. Claims have been
really, really stable. And I called it a
dreadful jobs report, but over the last
12 months, if you stripped out
healthcare, it is pretty ugly out there
for hiring.
>> We would have been in a jobs recession
of sorts in a lot of different
industries. We've seen a lot of people
struggle to find jobs in terms of the
time, but the amount of firing hasn't
really picked up and there is this
equilibrium because of an aging
population and a lack of immigration. I
just wonder if this is a good thing or
if it just adds to the complication of
what we're talking about, certainly for
the Federal Reserve. Is there enough
here for them to potentially cut rates,
be more sensitive to the job side of the
of the market given the inflationary
shock at least in the near term and
ultimately, the market seems to be
suggesting not so much based on the fact
there's only one rate cut priced into
the market for this year.
>> Equity futures going into the open about
about an arrow way negative by 0.7% on
the S&P 500. In the bond market, turning
to fixed income, yields down by basis
points through the curve, twos out to
30s, 10s are down about a one basis
point to 4.21. And of course, down on
top of crude for you, Brent 98 and up by
close to 7% on the session. Nela
Richardson of ADP joins around the table
here in New York for more. Nela, good
morning. Good morning. The labor market,
let's just start with the labor market
then we can get to the broader economic
backdrop. Just how fragile are things,
particularly the insight that we got
from the payrolls report over the past
week? You know, John, this is a peculiar
time because it's a time when you have
to separate a pretty strong labor market
with very weak hiring. They are two
different things.
Um and if you look at the the hiring
we've seen, it's been concentrated in
certain industries. And so, the labor
market overall, Mike McKee just reported
it, there's very few firings, there's
very few layoffs. We're at historical
lows. It's pretty strong. Uh it's pretty
robust when you look at pay gains, but
the hiring is weak. The uncertainty is
leading uh firms to be more cautious.
And that is the distinction that is hard
for people to get their minds around.
>> Did you expect those two differences,
those conditions to reconcile?
Um eventually, sure. I mean, we're
actually seeing at ADP a pretty solid
hiring path. Um we reported on Tuesday
that as of February 21st, hiring was
tracking over the last 4 weeks at about
60,000, which was in line with what we
said for the Feb- February ADP report.
Um that's very different than what the
government is showing right now with
that February report. But what you're
going to see, I think, is very a lot of
choppiness. The reason why the markets
didn't really respond to this low number
for February from the government
payrolls is that the average January and
February, and they got right around what
they expected for that 2-month average.
And that average is the point for the
markets, but it's not the point for Main
Street. That volatility matters a lot.
And if we are indeed seeing huge swings
in hiring from month to month after it's
been seasonally adjusted, that is not a
great place for workers to be right now.
There also is a sense that a lot of this
hiring, as John alluded to, is really
concentrated in healthcare, is
concentrated in a couple of industries
that are
that are encountering cyclical to any
kind of economic growth. Do you see any
expansion, broadening out, a sense that
this is a broader hiring that can take
place eventually when there is a some
sort of emergence from the stasis? You
know, we actually saw a broadening out
in construction jobs, and I think that's
a great signal. I mean, you're building
for it. Even the housing residential
starts that Mike reported
showed a little bit of signs of life in
a cold winter. But those that data
center investment, that building out of
the infrastructure, it is happening. Um
and it's happening at a time when
interest rates are where they are, and
um there is a lot of uncertainty. The
physical environment is still moving
forward, and I think that's a great sign
to hinge like the the platform for
what's needed for this AI boom to
actually
take off. What does this look like if
you impose a $100 a barrel oil on this
backdrop? Does it curtail this? Does it
stymie it? Or does it allow just growth
at a slower pace? You know what? Another
interesting part about the labor market
right now, and I think markets in
general, is that people are able to look
past one-off things. And I'm not saying
that this oil price conflict is one-off.
I'm just saying they can look through
$100 oil and maybe see a future. They
can look through higher inflation. They
can look through a weak jobs market.
They can look through a high deficits
and high debt. What hard to look past is
the crosswalk between all these things.
The multiplier effect of higher oil and
higher deficits and higher bond yields
on the 30-year, which increases
long-term borrowing costs. All of that
is hard, especially if you're a small
business. And that is where we're seeing
the bulk of the hiring right now. It's
hard to look past the intersection of
all these areas of uncertainty. And I
think that's what's going to lead to
more choppiness in hiring going forward.
>> Lisa's point, just before she asked
about oil, you were talking about an
expansion in construction working in
that sector. Doesn't this potentially
put a halt to that if this is a
prolonged crisis? You know, yeah, it it
does. And energy is driving this boom.
Energy drives AI.
That AI investment
uh is already slowed by how
resource-intensive
it is. That's why the infrastructure
needs to build out. And then I I was on
Wall Street Week just this past Friday
talking about the labor market that is
needed to fuel this investment
infrastructure boom. It's retiring right
now. So, you're not seeing the labor
supply keep up with the labor demand
even in construction. So, this is where
the supply constraint is really really
material. And then the last thing I I
I'd like to note just about the overall
labor market is that long-term
unemployed, those numbers are up 30%
from a year ago. So, it is still taking
longer to find that job. Uh the hiring
is so weak that we can't really ingest
new people into the workforce right now.
>> You talked about the crosscurrents.
Where does that leave the Federal
Reserve in your mind? On pause.
I think there's too much to digest right
now um because there they really are
crosscurrents. These trends are working
in opposite directions. Um and if you
have a 4.4% unemployment rate and that
is your North Star in the labor market,
then all the other things are just
inflationary pressure. So, I think that
they are going to really hinge their
bets on what they can see and the
unemployment rate is the most concrete
of any indicator that they're watching
right now. Nela, always good to see you.
A clinic as always. Nela Richardson
there of ADP. A glimmer of hope, some
positivity there about hiring. And we
hope for sure we see more of that. Yeah,
I have to say that actually made me feel
really good because it's nice to think
that it was actually accelerating going
into this, not necessarily in this
perilous weakening state that some
people have talked about. Is that enough
to overcome some sort of price shock?
And that ultimately has a lot of
potential asterisks and what if and
scenarios baked in, but that's what
everyone's wondering. Up next on the
program, we'll break down some of the
big moves in financial markets, triple
digits overnight on crude. What does it
mean for fixed income? We'll catch up
with Oksana Aronov of J.P. Morgan in
just a moment. Plus, we'll get you some
morning movers. We'll talk about private
credit, Morgan Stanley sliding in the
premarket. That name slightly softer
this morning. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> We keep hearing about the potential stag
part of stagflation.
I actually am a little bit less
concerned about that. We got Brent at
around 97.
Uh the average price of Brent in 2022
was 100. We didn't get a recession out
of all of that. While we shouldn't
underestimate the gravity of everything
we're seeing, I think it's premature
perhaps to overestimate it. That was
Sonali Desai of Franklin Templeton.
Things are still pretty calm on Wall
Street. Equities still very close to
all-time highs. Things in the Middle
East anything but calm so far this
morning. Equity futures negative by 3/4
of 1% on the S&P. On the Russell, we're
down by 1.5. In the commodity market,
Brent and WTI Brent crude briefly back
in triple digits once again and very
close this morning right now. 98.50 on
Brent, higher by more than 7%. That's
the cross-asset stuff. Let's get you
some single names, the morning movers.
Danny Haszley, hey Danny. Hey John. Some
of the earnings we've gotten over the
past few hours, Petco reporting well
ahead of estimates. Shares up nearly 16%
in the pre-market showing that
consumers, despite all that economic
uncertainty, are still spending on their
pets. It's also a turnaround story for
Petco. After the spending post-pandemic,
they started to lag. So, this is them
attempting a catch-up. On the other side
of things, we had earnings from Dollar
General and this was a disappointment. I
mean, not to a huge degree. The results
were in line, but for them, that's not
good enough. The shares surged 75% last
year. They're up a good amount this
year, too. This idea that consumers have
been trading down. So, sure they're in
line, but the expectation was that
they'd beat in a big way. Finally,
wrapping things up with Morgan Stanley
late yesterday that its BDC uh
Northhaven would be ga- uh gating
redemptions at 5% for its private credit
fund. Again, feeding into these fears
over the funds themselves and private
credit shares uh down 2.8% of Morgan
Stanley in the pre-market trade, John.
Danny, thank you. Looking forward to the
program. Danny Burger, Matt Miller
picking things up in about 15 minutes
time to guide you into the opening bell.
Track of the story as it develops in the
Middle East. Bloomberg's Joumanna
Bercetche joins us now out of Dubai for
more. Joumanna, welcome back to the
program. We're all standing by here
because we've had some indication from a
semi-official news agency out of Iran
that we might be getting a statement
from the new supreme leader. What are
you and the team looking for?
Yeah, that's right. Uh so they suggested
that a statement is imminent. It's
coming out on a Telegram at any point.
Uh
this I will say will be the first
statement that's going to be delivered
by this new supreme leader, the son of
the former supreme leader, Mojtaba
Khamenei. And what's interesting about
this is people have been speculating
about his whereabouts since February
28th, since that initial strike on the
presidential compound took out his
father alongside other key personnel as
well. Uh and there were some questions
as to whether he was actually still
alive. Uh interesting that they will be
releasing a statement. Unclear whether
he himself will be delivering the
statement, a video statement, or whether
it's a written statement. We'll have to
wait and see in a couple of minutes when
it is released. But the point here is it
is very unlikely you're going to get
anything but more of the same, i.e. more
of defiance and pledges to retaliate. Uh
this is an individual who is quite
literally cut of the same cloth as his
father. He's just as hardliner, if not
more hardliner. He has the strong
support of the clerical community. He's
been supported by the Revolutionary
Guard and was placed there because of
that support. There's little doubt that
his elevation is also going to raise the
influence of the Iranian military
command structure. And it isn't really
going to lead to any significant changes
in the multiple layers of the power
structure that exist in Iran as well. Uh
he himself was placed under US sanctions
in 2019. He's also been uh criticized or
accused of interfering in elections and
of being involved in those brutal
security crackdowns that we've seen
versus Iranian protesters. So,
in no respect is this a Delcy Rodriguez
situation and I don't think anyone
really anticipates the statement that is
due imminently to show anything but
defiance. And indeed, if you look at the
language that has come through from some
of those IRGC commanders, from the
military command, from Ali Larijani, the
individual who's leading the National
Supreme Council, what they have
suggested is that this war is going to
go on and they are fully intent on
pursuing this war of attrition because
they sense and they see that the
economic economic costs are mounting
and they're trying to push the US as
much as they can on the pressure points.
>> Jemima, appreciate your leadership this
morning. When we get the statement, of
course, we'll bring the headlines to
you. Jemima Pacetti there of Bloomberg.
She'll bring the headlines to us, I'm
sure, as well. This headline crossed
just as we're having this conversation.
Just tracking the move in energy and
then how it spills out feeds into the
rest of the world. This from Air
France-KLM, according to AFP, raising
long-haul ticket prices due to the price
of oil. Not the first, probably won't be
the last. We saw it earlier this week
with all the Asian airlines and now
you're seeing some of the Europeans one.
We heard from Willie Walsh, the head of
the International Air Transport Agency,
talking about today at a conference.
You're going to see airline ticket
prices move 8 to 9% higher. We are 13
days in. If prices remain elevated, it's
going to be incredibly challenging for
the jet fuel market.
>> Khandal standing by down in Washington
D.C. Sanam, welcome back to the program.
You're seeing the real-world impact.
You've seen an early response from the
administration and other members of the
IEA. What's next is always the question
people will ask in markets. What's the
other options?
Well, John, at this point we know that
the Trump administration is mulling a
few potential options when it comes to
curbing these higher prices as just this
week we saw retail gasoline hit its
highest level under either of the Trump
administrations. The thing is there are
real questions about implementation,
timeline, and what will actually curb
costs for American consumers. Bloomberg
News had reported yesterday that
President Trump is mulling even invoking
the Defense Production Act emergency
powers that could help spur offshore
production off the coast of California
to help boost some domestic supplies.
The president has also floated,
according to our reporting, the
potential of asking Congress for a
federal gas tax holiday. We've also
We've also know that he's considering
waving what's known as the Jones Act,
which puts restrictions on goods being
tran- transported within the US so that
they have to be on US vessels. So,
there's a few different options here.
President Trump also previously floating
earlier this week that we could see some
more waivers when it comes to
oil-related sanctions. Though, didn't
really specify beyond that he spoke with
Russian President Vladimir Putin. But,
John, as you well know, this is just
heightening the political pressure on
the president as we head into the
midterm campaign season. Tanak Kendo,
thank you, Taylor. Down in Washington,
D.C. In the commodity market at the
moment, just off the highs, 98.13 on
Brent. WTI, 92.90 off the highs for the
session. The high of the session
overnight, north of $100 a barrel once
again on Brent crude. In the bond
market, yields slightly lower on a
10-year maturity, 4.22. Oksana Aronov of
J.P. Morgan Asset Management writing,
"Bonds have proven challenged in hedging
equity volatility, which should be a
wake-up call to investors continuing to
believe that a cutting cycle from the
Fed will bring lower long-term rates."
Oksana joins us now from Mark. Oksana,
good morning. Good morning. Translate
this shock in energy into the bond
market for us. What do you see and why?
We've said for a long time that long
rates do not respond to what the Fed is
doing at the front end. Long rates are
moving on the fiscal backdrop,
inflation, and technicals, meaning the
you know, the amount of issuance that we
have in Treasuries now. And this just
absolutely underscored it because of
course an oil shock creates an impetus
for potentially more inflation. And so
you're seeing bond yields move up
precisely at a time when investors need
that hedge in their portfolios. And so
I think this idea, this fixation on the
Fed cutting is neither getting us the
affordability that we're looking for nor
is it providing that, you know, long end
rally that people are relying for on
to to diversify their risk elsewhere in
their portfolios. So 10-year bond yields
at the moment still quite range bound
for the year. The low about 390, the
high around 430. You expect it to break
out of this range given what's
developing in commodities? If we see a
consistent
shift up in Well, and by the way, oil is
not the only commodity, right? But you
also have other other commodities moving
up. You also have things like fertilizer
moving up, which
impacts
food costs as well. And so if we see
kind of a continuous impetus higher for
inflation, then yeah, absolutely you can
see a sustained move up in long rates.
Again, against the backdrop also of a
fiscal backdrop and a widening deficit,
you know, that it's just not resolving
itself. Is that how you explain the idea
that people are trying to price in the
fiscal deficit? Is that how you explain
the mismatch between long-term inflation
expectations as expressed by break-even
rates, which have remained quite low,
just above 2% versus 10-year yields
which have been rising pretty steadily
in tandem with oil prices? So inflation
expectations are very much a product of
what investors kind of feel see now. And
so the moment they start to see prices
are moving up further or it feels that
way, right? We're going to see that
reflected in inflation expectations. And
that by the way is the worst
kind of the Fed's worst nightmare
because they can't really solve for
that. It where it's very difficult. It's
not a CPI measure that is sort of
objective. So, I think they tend to have
more volatility to them. They tend to be
more sticky once they do rise. And so,
avoid avoiding that scenario is is a
best-case scenario for the Fed, which
already is struggling to get inflation
kind of in its, you know, consistently
CPI or PCE, right? It's consistently
significantly above their target. So,
based on what you're looking at, which
is potentially rising long-end yields,
and they already have risen a
significant amount with a backdrop of
already some stress coming through in
the credit markets, how much more risk
needs to be priced in to particularly
lower-rated credit given potential
contagion coming from private credit,
given the fact that there could be some
pressure on the more stressed balance
sheets? Yeah, so the question here and
the keyword here is opacity, right?
There's a lot of opaqueness with respect
to private credit, particularly. We see
what's happening with BDCs. We see
what's happening with retail-driven
private credit exposure. And there are
lots of questions around valuations,
around liquidity, will I be able to get
my money back, is this thing worth what
it actually was? And I want to kind of
bring in maybe a little bit of a
different lens because there are a lot
of questions around how systemic is
this? And of course, we never know ahead
of time because if we did, we'd put
guardrails against it. So, we don't ever
know what's systemic ahead of time. But
one kind of avenue is potentially the
insurers that have increasingly more
exposure to that universe as well. You
know, insurers own something like $2
trillion of
private credit, which comprises 18% of
their overall bond holdings. And that's
not just private, it's it's a
combination of, you know, lending to
middle markets, CLOs, BDCs. So, BDCs are
actually a very small part of their
portfolios, but um
alternative asset manager-owned
um insurers own a significantly larger
component of these things and BDCs
included. So, you do have just more
risk-taking on the part of an industry
that historically has invested in
investment-grade credit, right? And now
is taking more and more risk in high
yield and in illiquid, you know, unrated
or lower-rated credit. So, is that
potentially a channel for a systemic,
you know, disruption of some sort? But,
we'll leave that aside for now. We
definitely believe that this credit
cycle, which is the longest one we've
had really on record, we haven't had a
credit cycle in a decade at this point.
We do think that it is
very ripe for a turnover, that's coming
to an end, and that you are going to see
meaningful repricing, not just in these
structures that, you know, are BDCs or
private loans, but it is going to spill
over into other forms of credit in the
broader markets.
>> And we had something similar from Apollo
as well. Oxana Aronov there of JP Morgan
Asset Management on the channel for
potential contagion. Getting visibility
on these things is really difficult,
too, because one of the firms we were
talking about overnight, their move to
limit redemptions was essentially a fund
of funds. So, tracking where the money
all is and where the money's being
pulled from is getting harder to do.
Which is part of the problem. And at
what point do people just start
demanding transparency in order to have
confidence to invest? I thought it was
notable that Apollo came out
that we heard, of course, from John Zito
saying, "We're planning to release
pricing every single day cuz guess what?
We're going to show we're not a bad
actor, and we're going to show what you
should be doing." So, you know, watch
for more of the same.
>> Putting some pressure on the competition
in some way, I'm sure.
>> no doubt.
>> Yeah. Brent crude this morning, 98,
higher by 6.6%. Coming up tomorrow,
Jordan Rochester of Mizuho, the Portola
Valley director Jean Seroka, Jill Carey
Hall of Bank of America, and the
Flexport CEO Ryan Patterson. Looking
forward to getting to the weekend as I'm
sure you all are, too. From New York
City this city this morning, good
morning to you all. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.